---
title: "Defining Substitute Rules for AAAA Records"
source: "/space/nios90/1320422224"
pageId: "1320422224"
---
An RPZ AAAA (address) record maps a domain name to a substitute IPv6 address. To define a specific name-to-address mapping, add an RPZ AAAA record to a previously defined RPZ.  
To define substitute rules for AAAA records:

1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab -&gt; **Response** **Policy** **Zones** tab, select *DNS_View* -&gt; *Zone,* and then click **Add** -&gt; select **Substitute** **(Record)** **Rule** -&gt; **Substitute** **(AAAA** **Record)** **Rule.**  
   or  
   From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab -&gt; **Response** **Policy** **Zones** tab, and then select a zone. Expand the Toolbar, click **Add** -&gt; select **Substitute** **(Record)** **Rule** -&gt; **Substitute** **(AAAA** **Record)** **Rule**.
2. The following fields are displayed in the *Add* *a* *Substitute* *(AAAA* *Record)* *Rule* wizard:
   
   - **Name:** Enter the domain name that you want to map to an IP address. The name that you specify, irrespective of the RPZ name, is used to determine a match with the RPZ rule. Click **Select** **Zone** to select a different zone.
   - **DNS** **View:** Displays the DNS view to which the selected RPZ belongs.
   - **IP** **Address:** Enter the IPv6 address to which you want the domain name to map.
   - **Comment**: Optionally, enter additional information about the AAAA record.
   - **Disable**: Clear the checkbox to enable the record. Select the checkbox to disable it.
3. Click **Next** to define extensible attributes.
4. Save the configuration.
