---
title: "Defining Substitute Rules for NAPTR Records"
source: "/space/nios90/1320422261"
pageId: "1320422261"
---
A DNS NAPTR object represents a Naming Authority Pointer (NAPTR) resource record. This resource record specifies a regular expression-based rewrite rule that, when applied to an existing string, produces a new RPZ name or URI.  
To define substitute rules for NAPTR records:

1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab -&gt; **Response** **Policy** **Zones** tab, select *DNS_View* -&gt; *Zone,* and then click **Add** -&gt; select **Substitute** **(Record)** **Rule** -&gt; **Substitute** **(NAPTR** **Record)** **Rule.**  
   or  
   From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab -&gt; **Response** **Policy** **Zones** tab, and then select a zone. Expand the Toolbar, click **Add** -&gt; select **Substitute** **(Record)** **Rule** -&gt; **Substitute** **(NAPTR** **Record)** **Rule**.
2. The following fields are displayed in the *Add* *a* *Substitute* *(NAPTR* *Record)* *Rule* wizard:
   
   - **Domain:** Enter the domain name to which this resource record refers. Make sure that you enter a valid FQDN. Example: [test.com](http://test.com), [http://foo.com](http://foo.com) , etc. The name that you specify, irrespective of the RPZ name, is used to determine a match with the RPZ rule. Click **Select** **Zone** to select a different zone.
   - **DNS** **View:** Displays the DNS view to which the selected RPZ belongs.
   - **Service:** Select a service from the drop-down list. This field specifies the service and protocol that are used to communicate with the host at the domain name.
   - **Flags:** The Flag field indicates whether the current lookup is terminal; that is, the current NAPTR record is the last NAPTR record for the lookup. It also provides information about the next step in the lookup process. The flags that are currently used are:
     
     - **U**: Indicates that the output maps to a URI (Uniform Record Identifier).
     - **S:** Indicates that the output is a domain name that has at least one SRV record. The DNS client must then send a query for the SRV record of the resulting domain name.
     - **A:** Indicates that the output is a domain name that has at least one A or AAAA record. The DNS client must then send a query for the A or AAAA record of the resulting domain name.
     - **P:** Indicates that the protocol specified in the Service field defines the next step or phase.
   - **Order:** Select an Integer from 10 to 100, or enter a value from 0 to 65535. This value indicates the order in which the NAPTR records must be processed. It processes the record with the lowest value first.
   - **Preference:** Select an Integer from 10 to 100, or enter a value from 0 to 65535. Similar to the Preference field in MX records, this value indicates which NAPTR record the DNS client should process first when the records have the same Order values. It processes the record with the lowest value first.
   - **REGEX**: The regular expression that is used to rewrite the original string from the client into a domain name. RFC 2915 specifies the syntax of the regular expression. Note that the appliance validates the regular expression syntax between the first and second delimiter against the Python re module, which is not 100% compatible with POSIX Extended Regular Expression as specified in the RFC. For information about the Python re module, refer to [http://docs.python.org/release/2.5.1/lib/module-re.html](http://docs.python.org/release/2.5.1/lib/module-re.html) [.](http://docs.python.org/release/2.5.1/lib/module-re.html)
   - **Replacement:** This specifies the domain name for the next lookup. The default is a dot (.), which indicates that the regular expression in the REGEX field provides the replacement value. Alternatively, you can enter the replacement value in FQDN format.
   - **Comment**: Optionally, enter additional information about the NAPTR record.
   - **Disable**: Clear the checkbox to enable the record. Select the checkbox to disable it.
3. Click **Next** to define extensible attributes.
4. Save the configuration.
