---
title: "Defining Substitute Rules for IPv6 Addresses or Networks"
source: "/space/nios90/1320357018"
pageId: "1320357018"
---
You can restrict access to specific IPv6 addresses or networks by providing a substitute IP address. When a client queries for AAAA records of a domain name if the IP addresses in AAAA records in the response match the specified address or network, then the response is modified to instead contain the substituted address.  
To define substitute rules for IPv6 addresses or networks:

1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab -&gt; **Response** **Policy** **Zones** tab, select *DNS_View* -&gt; *Zone,* and then click **Add** -&gt; select **Substitute** **(Record)** **Rule** -&gt; **Substitute** **(IPv6** **Address)** **Rule.**  
   or  
   From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab -&gt; **Response** **Policy** **Zones** tab, and then select a zone. Expand the Toolbar, click **Add** -&gt; select **Substitute** **(Record)** **Rule** -&gt; **Substitute** **(IPv6** **Address)** **Rule**.
2. The following fields are displayed in the *Add* *a* *Substitute* *(IPv6* *Address)* *Rule* wizard:
   
   - **IP** **Address** **or** **Network**: Enter the IPv6 address or the network address which you want to substitute with another IP address. Click **Select** **Zone** to select a different zone.
   - **DNS** **View:** Displays the DNS view to which the selected RPZ belongs.
   - **Policy**: Displays the selected policy.
   - **Substituted** **IP** **Address**: Enter the IPv6 address that must be returned to the user when the response matches the AAAA records.
   - **Comment**: Optionally, enter additional information about the IPv6 address.
   - **Disable**: Clear the checkbox to enable the record. Select the checkbox to disable it.
3. Click **Next** to define extensible attributes.
4. Save the configuration.
