---
title: "Defining Substitute Domain Name (Based on Client IP address) Rules"
source: "/space/nios90/1321109156"
pageId: "1321109156"
---
You can define a substitute domain name rule for a client IP address if you want to substitute the actual response to a query from the DNS client with an alternate domain name or IP address. When the IP address of the client querying a DNS server matches the RPZ rule, the actual response is substituted with the alternative domain name or IP address specified in the RPZ rule.  
To define substitute domain name rule for client IP addresses:

1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab -&gt; **Response** **Policy** **Zones** tab, select *DNS_View* -&gt; *Zone,* and then click **Add** -&gt; select **Substitute** **(Domain** **Name)** **Rule** -&gt; **Substitute** **Domain** **Name** **(Client** **IP** **Address)** **Rule**.  
   or  
   From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab -&gt; **Response** **Policy** **Zones** tab, and then select a zone. Expand the Toolbar, click **Add** -&gt; select **Substitute** **(Domain** **Name)** **Rule** -&gt; **Substitute** **Domain** **Name** **(Client** **IP** **Address)** **Rule**.
2. The following fields are displayed in the *Add* *a* *Substitute* *Domain* *Name* *(Client* *IP* *Address)* *Rule* wizard:
   
   - **Client** **IP** **address** **or** **Network:** Enter the client IP address or client network for which you want to define a substitute domain name (client IP address) rule. Click **Select** **Zone** to select a different zone.
   - **DNS** **View:** Displays the DNS view to which the selected RPZ belongs.
   - **Policy**: Displays the selected policy.
   - **Substituted** **Name:** Enter an alternative domain name or IP address that replaces the actual DNS response. Click **Select** **Zone** to select a different zone.
   - **Comment**: Optionally, enter additional information.
   - **Disable**: Clear the checkbox to enable the substitute rule. Select the checkbox to disable it.
3. Click **Next** to define extensible attributes.
4. Save the configuration.
