---
title: "Defining the Source, Destination, and Type of DNS Data"
source: "/space/nios90/1341292673"
pageId: "1341292673"
---
1. Launch the *Data Import Wizard*.
2. After reading the information in the left panel of the welcome page, click **Next**.
3. Select** Import to Infoblox Appliance**, enter the following, and then click **Next**:
   
   - **Hostname or IP address**: **10.0.1.10**
   - **Username**: **admin**
   - **Password**: **1n85w2IF**  
     The *Data Import Wizard* Log opens in a separate window behind the wizard. Leave it open while you continue.
4. Select the following, and then click **Next**:
   
   - **What kind of data would you like to import?**: **DNS**
   - **Which legacy system are you importing from?**: **BIND 9**
   - **Which appliance will be serving this data?**: **10.0.1.10**
5. Select the following, and then click **Next**:
   
   - **What BIND 9 DNS configuration file would you like to use?**: Click **Browse**, navigate to the named.conf file you saved from the legacy server, select it, and then click **Open**.
   - **What type of BIND 9 DNS data do you want to import?**: **DNS zone information** and **DNS record data**
   - **Where is the BIND 9 DNS record data?**: **Zone transfer(s) from a DNS server**; **10.0.1.5**

The wizard displays two tables of data. The upper table contains global DNS server configuration parameters. The lower table contains zone configurations.  
The *Data Import Wizard* Log presents a summary listing the number of views, zones, and DNS records in the configuration file.

> **warning**
>
> **Note**
> 
> Only superusers can import A, AAAA, shared A, and shared AAAA records with a blank name. Limited-access users must have read/write permission to **Adding** **a** **blank** **A/AAAA** **record** to import A, AAAA, shared A, and shared AAAA records with a blank name, otherwise, the import operation might fail. You can assign global permission for specific admin groups and roles to allow to import A, AAAA, shared A, and shared AAAA records with a blank name. For more information, see [*Administrative Permissions for Adding Blank A or AAAA Records*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-administrators/administrative-permissions-for-dns-resources).
