---
title: "Viewing Objects in the Recycle Bin"
source: "/space/nios90/1343292481"
pageId: "1343292481"
---
Grid Manager displays the short name of all deleted objects in the Recycle Bin. For example, the short names for hosts and resource records are their domain names, and the short names for fixed addresses and reservations are their IP addresses.  
The Recycle Bin does not display all deleted objects; it can display up to 15 of the most recently deleted objects. When the Recycle Bin contains objects that are not displayed in the *Finder* panel or multiple objects that have the same name, the **Show** **All** button appears. Click the button to display the *Recycle* *Bin* dialog box that contains detailed information about each deleted object. When you have multiple deleted objects that use the same name, you may want to view detailed information about the deleted objects before taking any action. You can remove and restore selected objects and empty the Recycle Bin in the *Recycle* *Bin* dialog box.  
You can do the following in the *Recycle* *Bin* dialog box:

- Sort the data in ascending or descending order by column.
- Use filters and the search function to look for specific objects. For information about filters, see [*Using Filters*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/performing-basic-operations-using-grid-manager/finding-and-restoring-data/using-filters).
- Create a quick filter to save frequently used filter criteria. For information, see [*Using Quick Filters*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/performing-basic-operations-using-grid-manager/finding-and-restoring-data/using-quick-filters).
- Use the **GoTo** function to quickly find the data in the list. With the autocomplete feature, you can just enter the first few characters of an object name in the **GoTo** field and select the object from the possible matches.

To view detailed information about deleted objects:

1. In the *Finder* panel, expand **Recycle** **Bin**.
2. Click **Show** **All**.

Grid Manager displays the *Recycle* *Bin* dialog box that contains the following information for each object:

- **Name**: The short name of the object. For example, the short names for fixed addresses and reservations are their IP addresses.
- **Type**: The object type.
- **Parent/Container**: The parent object or parent container to which the object belongs.
- **Admin**: The admin name of the user who deleted the object.
- **Data**: The data that the object contains, if any.
- **Network View**: The network view to which the object belongs.
- **Time**: The time stamp when the object was deleted. To close the dialog box, click **Close**.
