---
title: "Defining CLI Credentials for Objects"
source: "/space/nios90/1343325377"
pageId: "1343325377"
---
You can define CLI credentials and enable password credentials for individual devices through associated IPAM objects:

- Fixed addresses
- IP reservations
- Hosts

For a quick way to locate all objects of a certain type in the Grid, you may create a smart folder with settings such as **Type** &gt; **Equals** &gt; **IPv4** **Fixed** **Address**. Title the smart folder appropriately.

To define and test the CLI credentials for an IPAM object, complete the following:

1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **IPAM** tab.
2. In the *IPAM IP List* page or the *IPAM IP Map* page, navigate to the required network and then to the IP associated with the object you want to edit.
   
   Note for each network, the IP list page provides a **Type** data column showing the IPAM object type that is associated with any IP address. Also, check the **MAC** **Address** column in the IP List page for information about associated objects.
3. Click the IP address. On the IP address page, click the **Related** **Objects** tab.
4. Select the checkbox for the object in the Related Objects panel and click **Edit**.
5. In the object editor, click the **Discovery** tab.
6. Click **Override** **CLI** **Credentials**.  
   By default, CLI credential definitions use SSH at the object level. Select **Allow** **Telnet** if you want to allow both SSH and Telnet credential usage. Infoblox recommends SSH because of better security.
7. Enter the **Name** and **Password** values and the **Enable** **Password** value.
8. Click **Test** **CLI** **Credentials** to test the CLI discovery credential settings applied to the object.
9. When finished, click **Save** **&** **Close**.
