---
title: "Configuring SNMPv1/v2 Credentials"
source: "/space/nios90/1343325342"
pageId: "1343325342"
---
An SNMPv1/v2 community string is similar to a password in that the discovered device accepts queries only from management systems that send the correct community string. This community string must exactly match the value that is entered in the managed system.

To add an SNMPv1/v2 credential, complete the following:

1. From the **Infoblox** **Grid** tab, select the **Grid** **Manager** tab, and then click **Discovery**.
2. For the Grid: Click **Edit** -&gt; **Grid** **Discovery** **Properties** in the Toolbar.  
   For the Probe member: Select the *member* checkbox, and then click **Edit** -&gt; **Member** **Discovery** **Properties** in the Toolbar.
3. Click the **Credentials** tab.
4. To override the inherited Grid settings for a Probe member, click **Override**.
5. Click the Add icon and specify the credential details in the corresponding cells:
   
   - **Read** **Community**: Enter a text string that the management system sends together with its queries to the network device during discovery.
   - **Credential Group**: For the Grid, select a group to which you want to assign the credential. For the Probe member, the table displays settings that were configured on the Grid, but only the default credential group is used for the member. You can edit the credentials list making up the default group by clicking **Override**.
   - **Order**: The order for attempting the use of the credential.
   - **Comment**: A text comment about the credential.
6. Optionally, you can test the credentials you added to the list. You can test SNMPv1/v2c and SNMPv3 credentials against any device or any IP address, at the Grid level or from any Probe member or network view. For more information, see Testing SNMP and CLI Credentials below[.](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/ip-address-management/infoblox-network-insight/configuring-discovery-properties/Configuring+Discovery+Properties#bookmark1421)
7. Click **Save** **&** **Close** to save changes.

To find a specific string in the SNMPv1/v2 tab, enter the value in the **Go To** field and then click **Go**.

To remove a community string entry, select the checkbox and click the Delete icon.

To export the entire list of community strings in a table file readable by a spreadsheet program, click the Export icon and choose Export Data in Infoblox CSV Import Format. To export all data in a different format, click the **Export** icon and choose **Export Visible Data**.
