---
title: "Networks"
source: "/space/nios90/1343848860"
pageId: "1343848860"
---
You can create all the subnetworks individually (which in this example are 10.1.1.0/24, 10.1.2.0/24, 10.1.4.0/24, and 10.1.5.0/24), or you can create a parent network (10.1.0.0/16) that encompasses all the subnetworks and then use the Infoblox split network feature to create the individual subnetworks automatically. The split network feature accomplishes this by using the IP addresses that exist in the forward-mapping zones to determine which subnets it needs to create. This example uses the split network feature. For information about creating networks, see [*Configuring IPv4 Networks*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-ipv4-dhcp-data/configuring-ipv4-networks)*.*

1. From the **Data** ** Management** tab, select the **IPAM** tab, and then click **Add** -&gt; **Add** **IPv4** **Network** from the Toolbar.
2. In the *Add * *Network* wizard, complete the following:
   
   - **Address:** 10.1.0.0
   - **Netmask:** Use the netmask slider to select the /16 (255.255.0.0) netmask.
3. Click Next to select a server. Click the Add icon. Grid Manager displays [ns3.corpxyz.com](http://ns3.corpxyz.com) in the table.
4. Click **Save & Close**.
5. On the **IPAM** tab, select the **10.1.0.0/16** checkbox, and then select **Split** from the Toolbar.
6. In the *Split* *Network* dialog box, complete the following:
   
   - **Subnetworks:** Move the slider to 24.
   - **Immediately** ** Add:** Select **Only** ** networks** ** with ** **ranges** ** and ** **fixed** ** addresses**.
   - **Automatically** ** create ** **reverse-mapping** ** zones**: Select this checkbox.
7. Click **OK**.  
   The appliance creates the following 24-bit subnets for the imported Infoblox hosts:
   
   - 10.1.1.0/24
   - 10.1.2.0/24
   - 10.1.4.0/24
   - 10.1.5.0/24
8. From the **IPAM** tab, select the 10.1.1.0/24 checkbox, and then click the Edit icon.
9. In the *DHCP* *Network* editor, enter information on the following tabs:
   
   - *General*: **Comment:** **MGT**
   - *Server* *Assignment*: Add [**ns3.corpxyz.com**](http://ns3.corpxyz.com) as a server
10. Click **Save & Close**.
11. To modify the other networks, repeat steps #8 – 10 for each network and use the following information:
   
   - 10.1.2.0/24 Network:
     
     - **Comment:** Dev
     - **Server ** **Assignment:** [ns3.corpxyz.com](http://ns3.corpxyz.com)
   - 10.1.4.0/24 Network:
     
     - **Comment:** Server
     - **Server** ** Assignment:** [ns3.corpxyz.com](http://ns3.corpxyz.com)
   - 10.1.5.0/24 Network:
     
     - **Comment:** DMZ
     - **Server** ** Assignment:** [ns3.corpxyz.com](http://ns3.corpxyz.com)
