---
title: "Defining Options for the Network Provisioning Task"
source: "/space/nios90/1344964524"
pageId: "1344964524"
---
The Network Provisioning task provides several configuration options that affect how the task operates.

Hostname provisioning for interfaces is useful for troubleshooting purposes in the network, usually to ensure that an admin knows which router interface they are connecting through to communicate with the device. The hostname value is actually provisioned from within the Network Provisioning task. Enabling the Hostname Required? checkbox sets the NetMRI appliance to provision the network with hostnames applied to the router interfaces for easier identification.

Network provisioning requires that the system know exactly which IP address the gateway for the network will reside. For provisioning most networks, an Offset value of 1 indicates that the provisioned network gateway IP address ends with the host address of **.**.**.1, as in 192.168.1.1. An Offset value of 1 will be by far the most common value for provisioning networks. Specifying an offset value other than 1 indicates that the gateway IP is a specified number of host values from the prefix address of the network. For example, setting an IPv4 Gateway Address Offset of 12 indicates that the IP for the gateway ends in *.**.*.12, as in 10.1.1.12. Offsets work the same way for any size network: for an example such as 10.1.1.64/26, and an offset of 12, the provisioned gateway IP would be 10.1.1.76.

> **warning**
>
> ### Note
> 
> Make sure the defined offset value lies within the addressable boundaries of the provisioned network.

The same principles also apply for IPv6 networks, except that the IPv6 value is entered manually in hexadecimal instead of being selected from a drop-down list. Most provisioned IPv6 networks will use a /64 network address.

You can also select a different script from the default for the Network Provisioning task. To define settings for the Network Provisioning task:

1. From the **Dashboards** tab, select the **Tasks** tab. Under the **Network** **Provisioning** task, click the settings icon on the top right.
2. If the provisioning process requires a hostname, enable the** Hostname Required?** checkbox. (The network interface hostname ("eth0," "serial0") and the Zone that it belongs to are defined in the Network Provisioning task.)
3. Choose a gateway offset value from the** IPv4 Gateway Address Offset** drop-down list. If no value is selected, the offset value defaults to 1 for the provisioned network address.
4. If an IPv6 offset is required for provisioning an IPv6 network or for provisioning a network that supports both IPv4 and IPv6 addressing, enter the **IPv6 Gateway Address Offset** value in hexadecimal. If no value is entered, the offset value defaults to 0000.0000.0000.0001 for the provisioned network address, indicating an offset value of 1 for the gateway IP address.
5. In the** Script Name** dropdown, choose the script that you wish to run for the Port Activation task. The scripts are located on the Trinzic Automation 4000 appliance, and referenced for use by NIOS. By default, the bundled **Port Activation** script is selected.
6. Click **Save**.
7. Click **Cancel** to close the dialog.

The system sends the request to the NetMRI appliance and displays a **Provisioning Network Config updated** notification message.
