---
title: "Assigning Grid Members to Microsoft Servers"
source: "/space/nios90/1381566327"
pageId: "1381566327"
---
To configure a Grid member to manage one or more Microsoft servers:

1. **Grid**: From the **Grid** tab -&gt; **Microsoft** **Servers** tab -&gt; **Servers** tab, click the Add icon.  
   **Standalone** **appliance**: From the **System** tab -&gt; **Microsoft** **Servers** tab -&gt; **Servers** tab, click the Add icon.
2. In the *Add* *Microsoft* *Server(s)* wizard, complete the following:
   
   - **Which** **features** **do** **you** **want** **to** **configure?**: This section appears only when you have selected the **Enable** **MS** **AD** **feature** checkbox for mapping network users. For more information, see [*Enabling Identity Mapping*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/ip-address-management/managing-ip-addresses/viewing-identity-mapping-information). You can select multiple options in this section:
     
     - **Network** **Users**: Select this checkbox to enable the Grid member to synchronize user information with the managed Microsoft servers.
     - **DNS** **and** **DHCP** **Services**: Select this checkbox to enable the Grid member to synchronize DNS and DHCP services with the Microsoft servers.
     - **Active** **Directory** **Sites**: Select this checkbox to enable the Grid member to synchronize Active Directory sites.
   - In the **General** **Settings** section, complete the following:
     
     - **Managing** **Member:** Click **Select** **Member** and select the Grid member that manages Microsoft servers.  
       Select **None** if you do not want to associate a Microsoft server with a Grid member.
     - **Credentials** **to** **Connect** **to** **the** **Microsoft** **Server(s):** Enter the login name and password that the appliance uses to connect to the Microsoft servers. These must be the same as those you specified when you created the user account for the Grid member on the Microsoft servers. Note that you must specify the domain name and the user name in the following format: *domain_name\user_name.*
     - **Minimum** **Synchronization** **Interval** **(min)**: The default synchronization interval is two minutes. This is the time between the completion of one synchronization and the start of a new one. Synchronizing large data sets could take longer than the synchronization interval, causing a delay in the start of the next synchronization. For example, if the synchronization interval is two minutes but a synchronization takes five minutes, the time between the start of the first synchronization and the start of the next one is approximately seven minutes.  
       Note that the synchronization of Microsoft DHCP servers running Microsoft Windows 2012 or later includes the synchronization of DHCP failover relationships. Note that the DNS and DHCP failover synchronization rules do not have an impact on the Microsoft servers running a Windows version that is earlier than 2012.
   - **Logging Level**: Select a logging level for the Microsoft server log from the drop-down list: **Low**, **Normal**, **High**, and **Debug**. NIOS logs the messages based on the logging level you set.
     
     - **Low:** Logs only error messages.
     - **Normal:** Logs warning and error messages.
     - **High:** Logs warning, error and information messages.
     - **Debug:** Logs messages about all events associated with synchronization.
   - See [*Viewing Synchronization Logs*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-windows-servers/monitoring-managed-microsoft-servers/Monitoring+Managed+Microsoft+Servers#ViewingSynchronizationLogs) for a description of each level.
   - **Logging** **output** **destination**: From the drop-down list, select an output destination to which the appliance saves log messages for Microsoft servers. When you select **Microsoft** **Log**, the appliance logs the messages that are generated for the respective Microsoft server in the existing Microsoft log. This is selected by default. For more information, see [*Viewing Synchronization Logs*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-windows-servers/monitoring-managed-microsoft-servers/Monitoring+Managed+Microsoft+Servers#ViewingSynchronizationLogs). When you select **Syslog**, NIOS logs the messages that are generated for the respective Microsoft server in the syslog. For more information about the syslog, see [*Viewing the Syslog*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/monitoring/monitoring-the-appliance/using-a-syslog-server/Using+a+Syslog+Server#ViewingtheSyslog).
   - **Synchronize** **Data** **into** **Network** **View:** This field appears only when there is more than one network view in the Grid. Specify to which network view the data from the Microsoft servers is synchronized.
   - **Synchronize** **DNS** **Data** **into** **DNS** **View:** This field appears only when there is more than one DNS view in the network view. Specify to which DNS view the data from the Microsoft servers is synchronized.
   - **Comment:** You can enter additional information about the servers.
   - **Disable** **Synchronization:** Select this to disable the Microsoft servers. This allows you to preprovision the Microsoft servers and then enable them at a later time.
3. Click **Next**.  
   Depending on your configuration in the **Which features do you want to configure?** section, the Add Microsoft Server(s) wizard displays the Microsoft server setting options.
4. Complete the following:
   
   - If you have selected the **Network Users** checkbox, complete the following in the **Select your across-server settings for Network Users** page:
     
     - **Use** **General** **credentials** **(from** **first** **page** **of** **wizard)**: Select this checkbox if you want to use the same credentials that you specified for connecting the Microsoft servers.
     - **Credentials** **for** **synchronizing** **Network** **User** **service** **information**: Specify a username and password to synchronize user information from Active Directory domain controllers. The username you specify here must belong to the Domain User group and Event Log Reader group in Microsoft. For information, see [*Prerequisites on the Microsoft Server*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-windows-servers/configuring-identity-mapping/Configuring+Identity+Mapping#PrerequisitesontheMicrosoftServer).
     - **Use** **General** **synchronization** **interval** **(from** **first** **page** **of** **wizard)**: Select this checkbox to use the same synchronization interval that you specified in the **Minimum** **Synchronization** **Interval** for synchronizing the user and device mapping information from the Microsoft Active Directory authentication logs.
     - **Minimum synchronization interval**: The default synchronization interval is two minutes. This is the time between the completion of one synchronization and the start of a new one. Specify an interval to synchronize user information from the Microsoft Active Directory authentication logs.
   - If you have selected the **DNS** **and** **DHCP** **Services** checkbox, complete the following in the **Select** **your** **across-server** **settings** **for** **DNS** **and** **DHCP** **Services** page:
     
     - **Use** **General** **credentials** **(from** **first** **page** **of** **wizard)**: Select this checkbox if you want to use the same credentials that you specified for connecting the Microsoft servers.
     - **Credentials** **to** **connect** **to** **DNS** **and** **DHCP** **Services**: Specify a username and password to synchronize DNS and DHCP services. You must use the same username and password that you specify here when the appliance prompts for credentials during DNS or DHCP synchronization.
     - **Use** **General** **synchronization** **interval** **(from** **first** **page** **of** **wizard)**: Select this checkbox to use the same synchronization interval that you specified in the **Minimum** **Synchronization** **Interval** for synchronizing the DNS and DHCP services as well.
     - **Minimum** **Synchronization** **interval**: The default synchronization interval is two minutes. This is the time between the completion of one synchronization and the start of a new one. Specify an interval to synchronize the DNS and DHCP data from the Microsoft server.
     - **Manage DNS and DHCP services in**: Select a value from the drop-down list. You can choose to manage the DNS and DHCP synchronization services in either **Read-only** or **Read/Write** mode. For more information, see Setting the Management Mode above.
   - If you have selected the **Active** **Directory** **Sites** checkbox, complete the following in the **Select** **your** **across-server** **settings** **for** **Active** **Directory** **Sites** page:
     
     - **Use** **General** **credentials** **(from** **first** **page** **of** **wizard)**: Select this checkbox if you want to use the same credentials that you specified for connecting the Microsoft servers. Clear the checkbox to specify a new username and password for managing Active Directory sites.
     - **Credentials** **for** **synchronizing** **Active** **Directory** **information:** Specify a username and password to synchronize Active Directory sites. You must specify the same username and password that you specify here when the appliance prompts for credentials while synchronizing Active Directory sites.
     - **Use** **General** **synchronization** **interval** **(from** **first** **page** **of** **wizard)**: Select this checkbox to use the same synchronization interval that you specified in the **Minimum** **Synchronization** **Interval** for synchronizing Active Directory sites.
     - **Minimum** **Synchronization** **interval**: The default synchronization interval is two minutes. This is the time between the completion of one synchronization and the start of a new one. Specify an interval to synchronize the Active Directory sites.
     - **Manage** **Active** **Directory** **sites** **in**: Select a value from the drop-down list. You can choose to manage the Active Directory Site in either **Read-only** or **Read/Write** mode. For more information, see Setting the Management Mode above.
     - **Encryption**: You can encrypt the network traffic between the Grid member and the managed Microsoft server using SSL. Select a value, **None** or **SSL**, from the drop-down list. Infoblox strongly recommends that you select **SSL** from the drop-down list to ensure the security of all communications between the NIOS appliance and the Active Directory server. When you select **SSL**, the appliance automatically updates the TCP port to 636. When you select this option, you must specify the FQDN of the Microsoft server instead of the IP address and you must upload a CA certificate from the Active Directory server. Click **CA** **Certificates** to upload the certificate. In the *CA* *Certificates* dialog box, click the Add icon, and then navigate to the certificate to upload it.
     - **TCP** **port** **for** **LDAP** **connections**: The appliance displays the port number by default based on the encryption type that you select. When you select **None**, the appliance automatically updates the TCP port to 389.
5. Click **Next** and do the following in the Managed Servers table:
   
   - **Name or IP Address:** Enter either the FQDN or IP address of the Microsoft server. In order for the member to resolve the FQDN of a Microsoft server, you must define a DNS resolver for the Grid member in the **DNS Resolver** tab of the *Member Properties* editor. Note that if the IP address of the Microsoft server is specified, then the DNS resolver must resolve it when the member and Microsoft server synchronize DHCP data only.
   - **DNS Sync:** Select this option to enable the Grid member to manage the DNS service and synchronize DNS data with this server. Clearing this checkbox disables DNS service management and data synchronization. This allows you to pre-provision specific Microsoft servers and then enable them at a later time.
   - **DHCP Syn**c: Select this option to manage the DHCP service of the Microsoft server and synchronize DHCP data with this server. Clearing this checkbox disables DHCP service management and data synchronization. This allows you to pre-provision specific Microsoft servers and then enable them at a later time.
   - **Active Directory Sites:** Select this option to manage Active Directory sites and synchronize Active Directory Sites and networks with the Grid.
   - **DNS Monitor & Control**: Click **Override** to override the setting inherited from the Grid. To inherit the same settings as the Grid, click **Inherit**. Select this to enable monitoring and the ability to control DNS service for the Microsoft server. For more information, see [*Setting Grid Properties for Managing Microsoft Servers*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-windows-servers/configuring-grid-properties-for-managing-microso).
   - **Synchronize DNS Reporting Data**: Click **Override** to override the settings that are inherited from the Grid. To retain the same settings as the Grid, click **Inherit**. Select this to synchronize DNS reporting data from the Microsoft server. For more information, see [*Synchronizing DNS Reporting Data*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-windows-servers/configuring-grid-properties-for-managing-microso).  
     Note that synchronization of DNS reporting data is effective only when **DNS Sync** option is enabled for the Microsoft server.
   - **DHCP Monitor & Control**: Click **Override** to override the setting inherited from the Grid. To inherit the same settings as the Grid, click **Inherit**. Select this to monitor and control DHCP service for the Microsoft server. For more information, see [*Setting Grid Properties for Managing Microsoft Servers*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-windows-servers/configuring-grid-properties-for-managing-microso).
     
     Note that you cannot start or stop a DNS or DHCP service on a specific Microsoft server if you disable the monitor and control setting for the respective service. You can control and monitor DNS and DHCP services at the Grid level and override the settings at the Microsoft server level. Each monitor and control setting applies only to the DNS or DHCP service and the respective Microsoft server.
   - **Synchronize** **Network** **Users**: Click **Override** to override the settings inherited from the Grid. To inherit the same settings as the Grid, click **Inherit**. Select this to enable the identity mapping for the Microsoft server. For information, see [*Enabling Identity Mapping*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/ip-address-management/managing-ip-addresses/viewing-identity-mapping-information).  
     You can assign multiple Microsoft servers to a Grid member and test their connection to the Grid member. Click the Add icon to add another Microsoft server.
6. Select a Microsoft server and click the Test Microsoft Server icon, or click the Action icon  next to the respective Microsoft server and select **Test** **Microsoft** **Server** from the menu to verify whether the appliance can successfully connect to the Microsoft server. The appliance displays the test results in the *Test* *Microsoft* *Server* *Results* dialog box.
7. Save the configuration and click **Restart** if it appears at the top of the screen.

or

Click **Next:** Continue to the next step and define extensible attributes for the Microsoft servers. For information, see [*Managing Extensible Attributes*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-appliance-operations/managing-extensible-attributes).

After you configure a Grid member to manage a Microsoft server, the member automatically connects to the Microsoft server and starts synchronizing data. You can then do the following:

- View the status of the servers in the *Microsoft* *Servers* panel, as described in [*Monitoring Managed Microsoft Servers*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-windows-servers/monitoring-managed-microsoft-servers). Newly added servers first display a status of **Connecting** as the Grid member contacts the Microsoft servers. The status changes to **OK** after the Grid member successfully connects to the Microsoft server.
- View the data synchronized from the Microsoft servers. To view DNS data, navigate to the DNS view you specified. For information, see [*Viewing Zones*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-zones/viewing-zones). To view DHCP data, navigate to the **Networks** tab of the network view that you specified. For information, see [*Managing IPv4 DHCP Data*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-ipv4-dhcp-data).

Network conditions and the amount of data can affect the synchronization time. Therefore, you might not be able to view all of the synchronized data immediately.

- Use Smart Folders to organize the Microsoft servers and their data. For example, you can create a folder for DNS zones and another folder for DHCP scopes synchronized from a Microsoft server. For information about Smart Folders, see [*Smart Folders*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/smart-folders).
- Update the synchronized data. For information, see [Managing Microsoft DNS Services](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-dns-services)*,* and [*Managing Microsoft DHCP Services*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-dhcp-services).

You can also use Global Search to search for synchronized data, such as zones and IP addresses. For information, see [*Using Global Search*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/performing-basic-operations-using-grid-manager/finding-and-restoring-data).
