---
title: "Adding IPv4 Fixed Address/Reservation Templates"
source: "/space/nios90/1394574276"
pageId: "1394574276"
---
To create an IPv4 fixed address/reservation template:

1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DHCP** tab -&gt; **Templates** section.
2. Click the Add drop-down list and select **IPv4** **Fixed** **Address/Reservation** **Template**.
3. In the *Add* *IPv4* *Fixed* *Address/Reservation* *Template* wizard, enter the following:
   
   - **Name:** Enter a name that helps identify the fixed address/reservation template. For example, you can enter **HP** **Printer** when you create a template that contains settings for assigning fixed addresses or reservations to HP printers.
   - **Comment:** Optionally, enter additional information about the template.
   - **Use** **for** **cloud** **delegation**: When you select this checkbox, all fixed addresses you create using this template inherit authority delegation from their parent objects.
     
     In the **Optional** **Settings** **For** **Range** **of** **Objects** section, do the following:
   - **Offset:** An offset in a fixed address/reservation template determines the start IP address of the object created from the template. The appliance adds the offset value you enter here to the start IP address of the network in which you create objects using this template. That IP address becomes the start IP address of the object.
   - **Number of Addresses:** Enter the number of IP addresses to be used as fixed addresses, reservations, or roaming hosts.  
     Note that the appliance uses the offset and number of addresses only when this template is used in a network template.
4. Click **Next** to configure or override DHCP options as described in [*Defining IPv4 DHCP Options*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/configuring-dhcp-properties/about-ipv4-dhcp-options).
5. Click **Next** to enter values for required extensible attributes or add optional extensible attributes. For information, see [*Using Extensible Attributes*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-appliance-operations/managing-extensible-attributes).
6. Save the configuration and click **Restart** if it appears at the top of the screen.
