---
title: "Configuring the FireEye appliance to send alerts to NIOS"
source: "/space/nios90/1406304257"
pageId: "1406304257"
---
You must configure the NIOS generated URL, usernames and passwords on the FireEye appliance. FireEye appliance embeds the configured usernames and passwords in the alerts for authentication. When an alert is received, the NIOS appliance verifies the FireEye username prior to processing the alert. Note that the NIOS appliance accepts alerts sent by the FireEye appliance in **JSON** **Normal** format only.

To configure a FireEye appliance:

1. Login to the FireEye appliance with your username and password.
2. In the FireEye GUI, click **Settings** tab and then click the **Notifications** tab on the left panel.
3. In the **Notification** **Settings** page, click the **http** link and then enter the name of the HTTP server you want to add. Click **Add** **HTTP** **Server** and complete the following:
   
   - **Name**: When you click add, the HTTP server name that you specified is listed in this column.
   - **Enabled**: Select the checkbox to enable alerts and notifications for the HTTP server.
   - **Server** **Url**: Enter the URL you received on the NIOS appliance. The alerts and notifications are sent using this URL by the FireEye appliance.
   - **Auth**: Select this checkbox if authentication is required for the server.
   - **Username** **and** **Password**: Enter the Username and Password of the user that you have configured for the **fireeye-group** on the NIOS appliance. For more information, see [*For FireEye Integrated RPZs*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-infrastructure-security/infoblox-dns-firewall/license-requirements-and-admin-permissions-for-r).
   - **Notification**: Select a notification from the drop-down list. You can choose to include notifications for all events or only events of a selected type. The FireEye appliance will send an alert to the NIOS appliance only when selected event is encountered. When you select **All** **Events**, alerts are sent when each event is encountered by the FireEye appliance.
   - **Delivery**: Select **Per** **Event** from the drop-down list. Note that the NIOS appliance supports only **Per** **Event** selection. The FireEye appliance sends an alert each time it encounters an event.
   - **Account**: You can specify a user account name for this notification.
   - **SSL** **Enable**: Select this checkbox to enable SSL for secure transmission of alerts from the FireEye appliance to NIOS.
   - **Default** **Provider**: Select a default provider from the list.
   - **Message** **Format**: Select **JSON** **Normal** from the drop-down list. Note that the NIOS appliance supports only this message format.
4. Click **Update** at the bottom of the page.

> **warning**
>
> ### Note
> 
> You can also click **Test-Fire** to test the configuration. If the configuration is successful, FireEye sends a confirmation message to the NIOS appliance and the NIOS appliance logs this message in the syslog. It generally takes a few seconds for the NIOS appliance to receive alerts. You must verify the configuration, if there is no entry in the syslog.
