---
title: "Configuring DNS over HTTPS in Firefox"
source: "/space/nios90/1420100175"
pageId: "1420100175"
---
If you are using the developer version of the Firefox browser to initiate DNS queries, you must configure additional settings in the browser to enable the DNS over HTTPS support. Complete the following steps in Firefox to enable DNS over HTTPS and upload certificates:

1. In the **Network Settings** section, click **Settings** and complete the following steps to set the Grid IP address as the custom DNS over HTTPS server:
   
   1. In the *Connection Settings* dialog box select the **Enable DNS over HTTPS** checkbox.
   2. From the **Use Provider** drop-down list, choose **Custom**.
   3. In the **Custom** field, enter the Grid IP address in the format:  
      https://&lt;*dns-server*&gt;/dns-query
2. Set the network.trr.mode preference in the configuration editor as follows:
   
   1. Enter **about:config** in the Firefox address bar.
   2. Click **Accept the Risk and Continue** to open the configuration editor.
   3. Search for **network.trr.mode**.
   4. Click the Edit icon and set the value to **3**.
3. If you are using a self-signed certificate, complete the following:
   
   1. From the address bar, open https://&lt;*doh_server_IP*&gt;.
   2. Accept the certificate.
4. If you are using a CA certificate, complete the following:
   
   1. Go to **Preferences**/**Options** -&gt; **Privacy and Security** -&gt; **View Certificates** -&gt; **Authorities** -&gt; **Import**.
   2. Choose the certificate.
   3. When prompted, select the **Trust this CA to identify websites** checkbox, and restart the browser.

> **warning**
>
> **Note**
> 
> For a member with the DNS Cache Acceleration service running and the DNS over HTTPS feature enabled, if you use the developer version of the Firefox browser (configured for DNS over HTTPS support) to initiate DNS queries, you must set the **network.trr.disable-ECS** preference in the configuration editor (about:config) to **false** for DNS data to be cached. DNS caching does not work if network.trr.disable-ECS is set to true.
