---
title: "Converting DHCP Leases"
source: "/space/nios90/1420198741"
pageId: "1420198741"
---
To create a fixed address, you bind an IPv4 address to a MAC address or an IPv6 address to a DUID. You can make that binding by converting an active dynamically leased address to a fixed address. The lease conversion transforms the temporary binding between the IPv4 address and MAC address or the IPv6 address and DUID in the dynamic lease to a persistent one. The lease must be active so that the NIOS appliance has an IPv4-to-MAC address or IPv6-to-DUID binding to convert into a fixed address.  
The appliance uses the following rules when converting a DHCP lease:

- If an IPv4 DHCP lease is converted to a fixed address, the appliance copies the client identifier to the fixed address, based on information in the lease. If the appliance finds the client identifier in the lease information, the appliance includes it when it creates the host. If it finds the MAC address, the appliance includes it when it creates the host. If it finds both, the appliance includes only the MAC address (default) when it creates the host.
- If an IPv6 DHCP lease is converted to a fixed address, the appliance copies the DUID to the fixed address.
- If you try to convert an IPv4 DHCP lease or a fixed address with a client identifier, not a MAC address, to a host, the appliance displays an error message in the host editor. This ensures that you do not attempt this operation and lose the data.
- You cannot create two IPv4 fixed addresses with the same client identifier or MAC address in the same network. You cannot create two IPv6 fixed addressed with the same DUID in the same network.
- If the appliance receives a second IPv4 DHCP request with the same client identifier, it provides the same fixed IP address if the lease is still binding.

The below figure illustrates converting a dynamic IPv4 lease to a fixed lease.   
  
*Converting* *a* *Dynamic* *IPv4* *Lease* *to* *a* *Fixed* *Lease*

*[drawio]*

An advantage of converting an active dynamic lease is that you do not need to learn the MAC address or DUID of the device to which you want to assign an IP address and manually enter it in the fixed address configuration.  
An IPv4 reservation is an address that you exclude from DHCP use because you intend to configure that address manually on a device, such as a firewall, router, or printer. You can also convert an IPv4 fixed address or a dynamic address with an active lease to a reservation.  
When you convert an address in a DHCP range to a reservation, you reduce the total number of dynamically assignable addresses in that range by one. Correspondingly, this reduces the number of allocated addresses needed to exceed a high or low watermark threshold for that range.

> **warning**
>
> ### Note
> 
> To return an IP address to its place in a DHCP range after converting it from an active dynamic lease to a fixed address, reservation, or Infoblox host, delete the fixed address, reservation, or host to which you previously converted the IP address. The IP address then becomes part of the DHCP range to which it first belonged.

You can convert IPv4 fixed addresses to reservations, as shown in the below figure.

*Converting* *an* *IPv4* *Dynamic* *Lease* *or* *Fixed* *Address* *to* *a* *Reservation*

*[drawio]*

DHCP Client and Server Statically Configured Device and DHCP Server

To convert an object:

1. From the IP Map, select an IPv4 address or from the IP List panel, select an IPv4 or IPv6 address.
2. In the Related Objects tab, select the checkbox of the object, and then click **Convert** from the Toolbar or navigation bar.
3. Select the object type to which you want to convert the object. Grid Manager displays the corresponding editor for the object type.
4. For all IPv4 conversions, Grid Manager populates the discovered information in the corresponding editor. Depending on the type of conversion, do one of the following:
   
   - For host record conversions, see [*About Host Records*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/ip-address-management/managing-ip-addresses/about-host-records).
   - For IPv4 reservation conversions, see [*Modifying IPv4 Reservations*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-ipv4-dhcp-data/configuring-ipv4-reservations).
   - For fixed address conversions, see [*Modifying IPv4 Fixed Addresses*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-ipv4-dhcp-data/configuring-ipv4-fixed-addresses)[.](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-ipv4-dhcp-data/configuring-ipv4-fixed-addresses/Configuring+IPv4+Fixed+Addresses#ModifyingIPv4FixedAddresses)
   - For A record conversions, see [*Modifying A Records*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-resource-records/managing-resource-records)*.*
   - For PTR record conversions, see [*Modifying PTR Records*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-resource-records/managing-resource-records).

> **warning**
>
> ### Note
> 
> When you select an object for conversion, Grid Manager displays only the available conversion types for the object. You must save the changes in the editor for the conversion to take place.
