---
title: "Defining the Threat Insight Update Policy"
source: "/space/nios90/1426555502"
pageId: "1426555502"
---
You can configure the settings to obtain policy updates independently for Allowlist or module set, or for both. To configure how you want to obtain the latest Threat Insight updates, complete the following:

1. On the **Data** **Management** tab -&gt; **Threat Insight** tab -&gt; **Allowlist** tab, expand the Toolbar, and then click **Grid** **Threat Insight** **Properties**.
2. In the *Grid* *Threat Insight* *Properties* editor, click the **Updates** tab,
3. In the *Allowlist Updates* section, complete the following:
   
   - **Latest Available Allowlist**: Displays the latest allowlist that is available for download.
   - **Last Checked For Updates**: Displays the timestamp when the Grid last checked for updates.
   - **Allowlist Update Policy**: When you select **Automatic**, the appliance automatically downloads the latest allowlist updates based on the default or custom schedule. The appliance checks allowlist files and automatically downloads only the files that have changed. When you select an automatic policy, latest updates are activated automatically. If you select **Manual** as the update policy, the appliance displays a banner message in Grid Manager to notify you when new updates are available. You must then decide whether to apply the updates to the Grid or not. For information about how to manually apply the updates, see Manually Uploading Threat Insight Updates below.
   - **Enable Automatic Allowlist Updates**: Select this checkbox to enable the automatic upload feature. When necessary, you can click **Download Allowlist Now** to override the automatic update policy.  
     In the *Schedule* section, set up a recurring schedule for automatic updates as described in step 5.
4. In the *Module Set Updates* section, complete the following:
   
   - **Latest** **Available** **Module** **Set**: Displays the latest module set that is available for download.
   - **Last** **Checked** **For** **Updates**: Displays the timestamp when the Grid last checked for updates.
   - **Module** **Set** **Update** **Policy**: When you select **Automatic**, the appliance automatically downloads the latest module set and/or allowlist set based on the default or custom schedule. The appliance checks both the module and allowlist files and automatically downloads only the files that have changed. When you select an automatic policy, the Threat Insight service on the Grid members is restarted automatically to activate the latest updates. If you select **Manual** as the update policy, the appliance displays a banner message in Grid Manager to notify you when new updates are available. You must then decide whether to apply the updates to the Grid or not. For information about how to manually apply the updates, see Manually Uploading Threat Insight Updates below.
   - **Enable** **Automatic** **Module** **Set** **Updates**: Select this checkbox to enable the automatic upload feature. When necessary, you can click **Download** **Module** **Set** **Now** to override the automatic update policy.  
     set up a recurring schedule for automatic updates as described in step 5.
5. In the *Schedule* section, select one of the following to set up a recurring schedule for automatic downloads:
   
   - **Default**: When you select this, the appliance downloads the updates between 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. local time based on the time zone configured on your appliance. The appliance automatically selects a time between this time window the first time it performs an automatic update. All subsequent updates then follow the same schedule based on the selected time.
   - **Custom**: Select this and click the calendar icon to configure a custom schedule. Based on the policy you are configuring, in the *Automatic Allowlist Updates Scheduler* or *Automatic Module Set Updates Scheduler*, you can select **Hourly**, **Daily**, **Weekly**, or **Monthly** based on how often you want to update the module set and allowlist set.
     
     Note that the scheduled time does not indicate the exact time for the download. Downloads occur during the mid-point during of a 30-minute time frame. Therefore, the actual download can happen 15 minutes before or after the scheduled time.
     
     - When you select **Hourly**, complete the following:
       
       - **Schedule every hour(s) at**: Enter the number of hours between each update instance. You can enter a value from 1 to 24.
       - **Minutes past the hour**: Enter the number of minutes past the hour. For example, enter 5 if you want to schedule the rule update five minutes after the hour.
       - **Time Zone**: Select the time zone for the scheduled time from the drop-down list.
     - When you select **Daily**, you can select either **Every** **day** or **Every** **Weekday**, and then complete the following:
       
       - **Time**: Enter a time in hh:mm:ss AM/PM (hours:minutes:seconds AM or PM) format. You can also select a time from the drop-down list by clicking the time icon.
       - **Time** **Zone**: Select the time zone for the scheduled time from the drop-down list.
     - When you select **Weekly**, complete the following:
       
       - **Schedule every week on**: Select any day of the week.
       - **Time**: Enter a time in hh:mm:ss AM/PM (hours:minutes:seconds AM or PM) format. You can also select a time from the drop-down list by clicking the time icon.
       - **Time Zone**: Select the time zone for the scheduled time from the drop-down list.
     - When you select **Monthly**, complete the following:
       
       - **Schedule the day of the month**: Enter the day of the month and the monthly interval. For example, to schedule the rule update on the first day after every 2 months, you can enter Day 1 every 2 month(s).
       - **Time**: Enter a time in hh:mm:ss AM/PM (hours:minutes:seconds AM or PM) format. You can also select a time from the drop-down list by clicking the time icon.
       - **Time Zone**: Select the time zone for the scheduled time from the drop-down list.
6. Save the configuration.
