---
title: "Viewing a Complete List of Trusted Domains in the Insight Allowlist:"
source: "/space/nios90/1426555602"
pageId: "1426555602"
---
1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **Threat Insight** tab -&gt; **Allowlist** tab.
2. The appliance displays the following for each trusted domain:
   
   - **Actions**: Click the Action icon  next to a domain and select one of the following:
     
     - **Disable**: Click this to disable the domain. When you disable a domain, the appliance does not treat this domain as trusted domain until you enable it.
     - **Edit**: Click this to open the *Allowlist* editor. For system domains, the only property you can modify is to disable or enable them. For custom domains however, you can also add information to the **Comment** field.
     - **Delete**: This is only applicable to custom domains. You cannot delete system domains. Select this to delete the custom domain.
   - **Domain** **Name**: The name of the trusted domain.
   - **Type**: Displays the domain type. This can be **System** or **Custom**. A system domain is a trusted domain that carries legitimate DNS tunneling traffic such as Avast, Sophos, McAfee, Boingo, Barracuda, and others. A custom domain is one that you have added to the allowlist or moved from the mitigation blocklist RPZ.
   - **Disabled**: Indicates whether this domain is disabled or not. The appliance does not treat disabled domains as trusted domains. You can disable both system and custom domains.
   - **Comment**: Additional information about the domain.

> **warning**
>
> ### Note
> 
> When you upgrade to a future NIOS release or update the insight allowlist, all changes made to the allowlist will be preserved.
