---
title: "DNS Infrastructure Protection Top Rules Logged by Source"
source: "/space/nios90/1428849707"
pageId: "1428849707"
---
The *DNS Infrastructure* *Protection* *Top* *Rules* *Logged* *by* *Source* sub-dashboard provides statistics about the total number of events triggered by the top sources (by client IP addresses) in a given time frame. You can also view the statistics for the total number of events triggered by NAT'ed clients in a given time frame. For example, if you configure a range of ports for a NAT'ed client, and if there are events logged from different port blocks of the NAT'ed client, then each port block is considered as a logical client in the dashboard. You can view the source IP address, total number of events, rule name, and timestamp of an event. If an event is triggered by a NAT'ed client, then you can view the source IP address along with the port block of the NAT'ed client. The default sub-dashboard displays a bar chart for the top 10 source IP addresses that triggered DNS Infrastructure Protection rules within the last seven days. This sub-dashboard allows you to identify the IP address of the client and the rules it triggered.

> **warning**
>
> Note
> 
> You can configure the top number of source IP addresses and DNS Infrastructure Protection rules on the appliance. For information about how to configure DNS Infrastructure Protection data, see [*Configuring DNS Infrastructure Protection Data*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-reporting-and-analytics/grid-reporting-properties/configuring-dns-infrastructure-protection-data).

This sub-dashboard displays the following information in table format:

- **Source**: The IP address of a source that triggered a DNS Infrastructure Protection rule.
- **Logged** **Event** **Count:** The total number of events triggered by a source against the rule.
- **Top** **Rules:** The name of the top rules triggered by each source IP. By default, the top three rules are displayed.
- **Last** **Active:** The timestamp when the source was last active.
