---
title: "Adding a Forward-Mapping Stub Zone"
source: "/space/nios90/1432748918"
pageId: "1432748918"
---
To add a forward-mapping stub zone:

1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab, expand the Toolbar and click **Add** -&gt; **Zone** -&gt; **Add** **Stub** **Zone**.
2. In the *Add* *Stub* *Zone* wizard, click **Add** **a** **stub** **forward-mapping** **zone** and click **Next**.
3. Specify the following, and then click **Next**:
   
   - **Name:** Enter the name for the stub zone.
   - **Comment:** Enter a useful comment, such as the admin to contact for the stub zone.
   - **Disable:** Click this checkbox to temporarily disable this zone. Note that disabling a zone may take a longer time to complete depending on the size of the data.
   - **Lock**: Click this checkbox to lock the zone so that you can make changes to it, and also prevent others from making conflicting changes.
   - The **Sync to MGM** is used for synchronizing the selected zone from the managed Grid to the Multi-Grid Master and is available only on the managed Grid when it remains joined with the Multi-Grid Master. Select one of the following from the **Sync to MGM** drop-down list:
     
     - **Use Inherited Setting**: ** **Select this to inherit synchronization settings from the parent level, i.e. the DNS view.
     - **Yes**: Select this to enable synchronization of zones between the managed Grid and Multi-Grid Master.
     - **No**: Select this to disable synchronization of zones between the managed Grid and Multi-Grid Master.
       
       **Note: **  If you have selected **No** at the parent level i.e DNS view (disabled synchronization) and if you try to select **Yes** when adding a zone, the appliance returns an error. This means that you cannot override the settings at the child level if you have already restricted synchronization at the parent level.
4. Click **Next** to define primary servers in the stub zone. You can specify a forward/stub server NS group or define the servers individually. Select one of the following:
   
   - Select **Use** **this** **name** **server** **group** to assign a forward/stub server NS group for the stub zone. You can select the forward/stub server NS group from the drop-down list. For information about forward/stub server NS groups, see [Using Forward/Stub Server Name Server Groups](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-zones/using-name-server-groups).
   - Select **Use** **this** **set** **of** **name** **servers** to define primary servers for the stub zone. Click the Add icon and enter the **Name** and **IP** **Address** of the primary server in the stub zone.  
     If the primary server is a Grid member, you must enter the host name and IP address of the Grid member. The NIOS appliance does not validate these entries. Therefore, if you change the IP address of a Grid member listed here, you must update the Grid member information in this list as well.  
     You can specify multiple primary servers for redundancy. If the primary server is a NIOS appliance, the appliance must have the Minimal Response feature disabled so it can propagate the data to the stub server. For information about the Minimal Response feature, see [*Specifying Minimal Responses*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-services/configuring-dns-service-properties/specifying-minimal-responses).  
     Optionally, click the **Don't** **use** **forwarders** **to** **resolve** **queries** **in** **subzones** checkbox to indicate that the name servers hosting the stub zone must not use forwarders to resolve queries for domain names in the stub zone or in its subzones.
5. Click **Next** to specify a stub member NS group or define the name servers individually to serve the forward-mapping stub zone. Select one of the following:
   
   - Select **Use** **this** **name** **server** **group** to assign a stub member NS group for the zone. You can select the stub member NS group from the drop-down list. For information about stub member NS group, see [*Using Stub Member Name Server Groups*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-zones/using-name-server-groups).
   - Select **Use** **this** **set** **of** **name** **servers** to define the servers individually. Click the Add icon and select one of the following:
     
     - **Add** **Infoblox** **Member**: Select this and select the Grid member that hosts the stub zone.
     - **Add** **Microsoft** **Server**: Select this and select the Microsoft server that hosts the stub zone. The following is displayed for each name server:
     - **Name**: Displays the name of the name server.
     - **IPv4** **Address**: Displays the IPv4 address of the name server.
     - **IPv6** **Address**: Displays the IPv6 address of the name server.
6. Click **Next** to continue to the next step where you define extensible attributes as described in [*Using Extensible Attributes*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-appliance-operations/managing-extensible-attributes).
7. Save the configuration and click **Restart** if it appears at the top of the screen   
   or  
   Click the Schedule icon at the top of the wizard to schedule this task. In the *Schedule* *Change* panel, enter a date, time, and time zone. For information, see [*Scheduling Tasks*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/scheduling-tasks).
