---
title: "OpenStack"
source: "/space/nios90/1468466262"
pageId: "1468466262"
---
For **OpenStack**, complete the following:

- **Keystone** **Server** **IP**: Enter the Keystone Server IP address.
- **Keystone** **Server** **Port**: Select this checkbox If you are using Identity Endpoint for the connection, else enter the Keystone Server Port number.
- **Protocol**: Select **HTTP** or **HTTPS** as the protocol. When you select **HTTPS**, you must upload the corresponding SSL CA certificate to the Grid in order for NIOS to communicate with OpenStack, as described in [*Managing Certificates*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/managing-certificates).
- **Allow** **unsecured** **connection**: This option is enabled when you use HTTPS as the protocol. When you select this, the appliance bypasses remote SSL certificate validation. Select this option only if security for the HTTPS connection between the discovering member and OpenStack is irrelevant, or if the connection is protected by other security measure besides TSL/SSL, such as an isolated private circuit.
- **Username** and **Password**: Enter the username and password of the administrative account that was configured on OpenStack. When you configure the administrative account, ensure that you have authorization to obtain device information on a wide network basis.
- **Identity Version**: Select the Keystone server identity service version from the drop-down list. You can select one of the following: **Keystone v2** and **Keystone v3**. By default, **Keystone v2** is selected.
- **Domain Name**: Enter the domain name. This field is displayed only if you select **Keystone v3** as the identity version.
