---
title: "Defining Filtering Options (for AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud Only)"
source: "/space/nios90/1468630102"
pageId: "1468630102"
---
Configure a vDiscovery job with CIDR-based filters to restrict vDiscovery to discover data only in included networks or skip vDiscovery in excluded networks. The maximum number of networks you can include in or exclude from a vDiscovery job is 10.

> **warning**
>
> **Note**
> 
> - You can enable the vDiscovery filter options only for private networks, not for public networks.
> - A single vDiscovery job can either include resources from one or more Networks/CIDR blocks or exclude resources from one or more Networks/CIDR blocks, but it cannot perform both include and exclude actions together in the same job.
> - The vDiscovery feature of vNIOS for Azure supports the use of CIDR-based filters on IPv6 networks also.

To define the filtering options for a vDiscovery job, complete the following steps:

1. Do one of the following in Grid Manager:
   
   - To create a new vDiscovery job:
     
     - On the **Data** **Management** tab -&gt; **IPAM** tab, from the Toolbar, select **vDiscovery** -&gt; **New**.  
       or
     - On the **Cloud** tab, from the Toolbar, select **vDiscovery** -&gt; **New**.
   - To modify an existing job:
     
     1. Do one of the following:
        
        - On the **Data Management** tab -&gt; **IPAM** tab, from the Toolbar, select **vDiscovery** -&gt; **Discovery Manager**.  
          or
        - On the **Cloud** tab, from the Toolbar, select **vDiscovery** -&gt; **Discovery Manager**.
     2. In the *vDiscovery Job Manager* editor, click the **Action** icon next to a selected job, and then select **Edit** from the menu.
2. In *Step 3 of 5* of the v*Discovery* *Job* wizard, do the following in the **Filtering Options** section:
   
   1. Select **Enable Filter**.
   2. In the **Network** drop-down list, do one of the following:
      
      - Select **INCLUDE** to include networks in which the vDiscovery job must discover resources. All other networks will be excluded from vDiscovery.
      - Select **EXCLUDE** to specify networks that must be excluded from vDiscovery. All other networks will be included in vDiscovery.
   3. Click the **Add** icon, and then for networks that must be included in or excluded from vDiscovery, enter a valid IP address range in the CIDR notation.
3. Click **Next** to configure the appliance to handle discovered data as described in the *Defining Policies for Handling Discovered Data* section.
