---
title: "About Adding and Configuring Cisco Meraki Discovery"
source: "/space/nios90/1468334282"
pageId: "1468334282"
---
Enabling the discovery of Cisco Meraki provides visibility into your Cisco Meraki SD-WAN elements, for example:

- Wireless access points
- Switches
- Routers
- Cameras
- Phones

Network Insight classifies Meraki cameras and phones as end hosts and other Meraki devices as network devices.

To add and configure Cisco Meraki discovery, complete the following:

1. From the **Infoblox Grid** tab, select the **Grid Manager** tab, and then click **Discovery**.
2. Select a Probe member, and then click **Edit** &gt; **Member Discovery Properties** in the **Toolbar**.
3. Click the **SDN/SD-WAN** tab.
4. Click the Add icon and select **Cisco Meraki**.
5. Complete the following:
   
   - **Config Name**: Specify a short and unique name for the current Cisco Meraki configuration.
   - **Address**: Enter the hostname or IP address of the Cisco Meraki Dashboard API. By default, it is [*api.meraki.com*](http://api.meraki.com).
   - **Protocol**: HTTPS by default.
   - **Network Interface**: Select the interface that will be used to access the device.
   - **API Key**: An access key is required to use Cisco APIs.
   - **Comment**: Additional information about the Cisco Meraki device.
   - **Connect using Grid Proxy settings if available**: Select if you want to use the Grid Proxy for connectivity to or from the Cisco Meraki device. If the Proxy is specified in the Grid properties, then Network Insight uses it. For more information, see [*Configuring Proxy Servers*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-appliance-operations/configuring-proxy-servers).
6. Click **Test Connection** to check if the device is reachable and the provided credentials are correct. The connection test results are also written to the syslog.
7. Click **Add**.
8. Click **Save & Close**.
