---
title: "About Adding and Configuring Cisco ACI Discovery"
source: "/space/nios90/1468334256"
pageId: "1468334256"
---
Enabling the discovery of Cisco ACI devices provides visibility into your Cisco ACI infrastructure. This allows you to view and manage discovered IP addresses of Cisco ACI fabric members such as APIC controllers and fabric switches with their attached end points.

> **warning**
>
> ### Note
> 
> The **Cisco APIC Configuration** tab in the member discovery properties was renamed to **SDN/SD-WAN**. You can find all previously configured Cisco ACIs in this tab that is described below.

To add and configure a Cisco ACI fabric, complete the following:

1. From the **Infoblox** **Grid** tab, select the **Grid Manager** tab, and then click **Discovery**.
2. Select a Probe member, and then click **Edit** &gt; **Member Discovery Properties** in the Toolbar.
3. Click the **SDN/SD-WAN** tab.
4. Click the Add icon and select **Cisco ACI**.
5. Complete the following:
   
   - **Fabric Name**: Specify a short and unique name for the current Cisco ACI configuration.
   - **Addresses**: Enter the hostname or IP address of the Cisco APIC controller. If your fabric includes more than one controller, click the Add icon to add more addresses.
   - **Protocol**: Select **HTTP** or **HTTPS**.
   - **Network View**: Select the network view to identify the corresponding network interface for connectivity with the Cisco ACI. Also, this network view will be assigned to discovered devices from this ACI.
   - **Username**: The login name for the Cisco ACI.
   - **Password**: The login password.
   - **Comment**: Additional information about the Cisco ACI.
   - **Connect using Grid Proxy settings if available**: Select if you want to use the Grid Proxy for connectivity to or from the Cisco ACI. If the Proxy is specified in the Grid properties, then Network Insight uses it. For more information, see [*Configuring Proxy Servers*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-appliance-operations/configuring-proxy-servers).
6. Click **Test Connection** to check if the fabric is reachable and the provided credentials are correct. The connection test results are also written to syslog.
7. Click **Add**.
8. Click **Save & Close**.
