---
title: "Google Cloud"
source: "/space/nios90/1468499272"
pageId: "1468499272"
---
Starting from NIOS 9.0.4, you can configure a single vDiscovery job to discover and synchronize data from multiple Google Cloud projects associated with a host project. For more information, see the *Performing Google Cloud vDiscovery* topic in the [*Installation Guide for vNIOS for *](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/vniosgcp)*Google Cloud*.  
Complete the following:

- **Service Account File**: Click **Upload** to select from your local disk and upload the Google Cloud service account file associated with a Google Cloud project. The service account file contains key details that are necessary to establish a connection between NIOS and Google Cloud. The vDiscovery job discovers the project and synchronizes data from the project.  
  If the service account file belongs to a host Google Cloud project that has child projects associated with it, you can define **Multi Project Options** as explained in this section to configure the vDiscovery job to discover multiple child projects associated with the host project and synchronize their data to NIOS.  
  For more information about creating a Google Cloud service account and downloading the service account file, see the *Performing Google Cloud vDiscovery* section in the [*Installation Guide for vNIOS for Google Cloud*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/vniosgcpdraft).
- (From NIOS 9.0.4 onwards)** Multiple Projects Sync**: Select the option and configure the **Multi Project Options** to synchronize data from multiple projects linked to your host project.  
  Select one of the following options:
  
  - **Discover Projects**: Select this option if you want the vDiscovery job to discover and synchronize data from all projects linked to your host project to which the uploaded service account file belongs.  
    Note that in Google Cloud, you must have assigned Compute Viewer and Folder Viewer permissions to the folder containing the projects that must be discovered.
  - **Add or Upload Child Projects**: Select this option to specify the list of projects (linked to your host project) that the vDiscovery job must discover and synchronize data from.   
    Note:  
    - In Google Cloud, you must have assigned Compute Viewer permission to every project that must be discovered.  
    - The multi-project options synchronize discovery data from the specified child projects and also their host project.  
    To define the list, do one of the following:
    
    - Upload a CSV file:
      
      1. Click the **Import** icon.
      2. In the *Upload* dialog box, click **Select** to browse for the CSV file containing the list of project IDs of child projects you want to add.
      3. Select the file and click **Open**.
      4. Click **Upload** to upload the file, and then click **Close**.
    - Manually specify the project IDs of child projects for which data must be synchronized. Repeat the following steps for every child project that you want to add:
      
      1. Click the **Add** icon to add a row in the *Project IDs* table.
      2. Click the new row and specify the project ID of a child project.

Click **Next** to define the network views to which discovered data belongs for both public and private IP addresses, as described in the *Defining*[* *](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/ip-address-management/ip-discovery-and-vdiscovery/configuring-vdiscovery-jobs/Configuring+vDiscovery+Jobs#DefiningNetworkViews)*Network*[* *](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/ip-address-management/ip-discovery-and-vdiscovery/configuring-vdiscovery-jobs/Configuring+vDiscovery+Jobs#DefiningNetworkViews)*Views* section.
