---
title: "HA Master - Node 1 Deployed on Public Cloud"
source: "/space/nios90/1480950527"
pageId: "1480950527"
---
Starting from NIOS 9.0.4, Grid Masters and members deployed on public clouds can be configured with HA.  
To set up the node 1 of the HA Master deployed on the AWS, Google Cloud, or Azure cloud, configure the following additional settings as part of step 6 in the [*HA Master - Node 1*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/deploying-a-grid/creating-a-grid-master/creating-an-ha-grid-master/ha-master-node-1) section:

> **warning**
>
> **Note**
> 
> - HA configuration with IPv6 networks is not supported on public cloud platforms.
> - You cannot change the LAN1 private IP address in vNIOS for AWS.

- **Public Cloud**: Select the checkbox If you are deploying the vNIOS instance on a public cloud platform, and then choose the platform from the drop-down list. This option appears when you select **Yes** for **Is the Grid Master an HA pair?**.
- **Ports** **and** **Addresses**: According to the platform you selected in the **Public Cloud** field, the **Ports and Addresses** table displays an additional field that you must configure for the HA interface of both nodes:
  
  - **Interface ID** for AWS: Specify the network interface ID of the HA interface configured for the corresponding VM instance in the Amazon EC2 console.
  - **Nic Name** for Azure: Specify the name of the HA interface configured for the corresponding VM instance in the Microsoft Azure portal.
  - **Compute Name** for Google Cloud: Specify the compute name configured for the corresponding VM instance in the Google Cloud console.  
    Note that for vNIOS for Google Cloud instances, you must also specify values in the **Subnet Mask** and **Gateway** fields as they are not auto-populated.

For steps that must be performed in the cloud platform portal, see the [*Infoblox vNIOS installation guide*](https://docs.infoblox.com/space/Appliances/35364966/Virtual+Appliances) of the corresponding cloud platform.
