---
title: "Threat Protection Top Rules Logged (To be Deprecated)"
source: "/space/nios90/1856045627"
pageId: "1856045627"
---
> **warning**
>
> **Note**
> 
> From NIOS 9.0.8, Threat Protection is called DNS Infrastructure Protection.
> 
> This sub-dashboard with previous name will be deprecated from NIOS 9.1.0 onwards. For future reference, use [*DNS Infrastructure Protection Top Rules Logged Dashboard*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-reporting-and-analytics/predefined-dashboards/security-dashboards/dns-infrastructure-protection-top-rules-logged-d).

The *Threat Protection* *Top* *Rules* *Logged* sub-dashboard provides the list of the top 10 Threat Protection rules that are triggered by a source IP in a given time frame. You can also view the Threat protection rules triggered by NAT'ed clients in a given time frame. You can view the source IP address, total number of events, rule name, and timestamp of the last event. If a rule is triggered by a NAT'ed client, then you can view the source IP address along with the port block of the NAT'ed client. You can also configure the appliance to display the report data in bar chart or in table form. The default sub-dashboard displays bar chart for the top 10 rules that are triggered within the last seven days. This sub-dashboard allows you to identify the IP address of a client and the rules it triggered.

> **warning**
>
> **Note**
> 
> You can configure the top number of source IP addresses and Threat Protection rules on the appliance. For information about how to configure Threat protection data, see [*Configuring DNS Infrastructure Protection Data*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-reporting-and-analytics/grid-reporting-properties/configuring-dns-infrastructure-protection-data).

This sub-dashboard displays the following information in table format:

- **Rule**: The name and description of a rule that is triggered by the source IP. For each threat protection rule, the active count is displayed for the top three source IP addresses.
- **Logged** **Event** **Count:** The total number of events triggered against the rule.
- **Top** **Sources:** The IP addresses of the top sources that are triggering this rule. By default, the top 3 source IP addresses are displayed.
- **Last** **Active:** The timestamp when the rule was last active.
