---
title: "Enabling Detect Only Mode on DNS Forwarding Proxy"
source: "/space/nios90/1857782004"
pageId: "1857782004"
---
Starting from NIOS 9.0.8, Detect Only Mode can be enabled for the DNS Forwarding Proxy service in the Infoblox portal. For more information about the modes that DNS Forwarding Proxy supports, see [*DNS Forwarding Proxy Modes*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-services/using-forwarders/forwarding-recursive-queries-to-infoblox-threat-/dns-forwarding-proxy-modes).

Enabling the Detect Only Mode does not trigger a restart of the DNS service, thereby preventing potential service outages.

To enable the Detect Only Mode, complete the following steps:

1. In the Infoblox portal, create join tokens required for authentication, and then define the Infoblox portal settings in the *Grid Member Properties* editor in Grid Manager as defined in the [*Enabling a Grid Member to Forward Recursive Queries to Infoblox Threat Defense*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-services/using-forwarders/forwarding-recursive-queries-to-infoblox-threat-/enabling-a-grid-member-to-forward-recursive-quer) topic.
2. To enable the **Detect Only Mode**:
   
   1. In the Infoblox Portal Configuration &gt; click **Create Service **&gt; select **DNS Forwarding Proxy** from the drop-down list.
   2. In the ***Create DNS Forwarding Proxy*** wizard, complete the following:
      
      - **Name **(required field): Specify a name for the service instance.
      - **Description**: Enter a description for the service instance.
      - **Service State**: Set the toggle to start or stop the service.
      - **Detect Only Mode**: Set the toggle to enable or disable the Detect Only Mode. By default, the toggle is in the disabled state, which means the DNS Forwarding Proxy service is running in the Enforcement mode.
      - **Host**: Select a host from the drop-down list.  
        Only the available hosts are displayed in this list.
   3. Click **Finish**.
