---
title: "Publishing Rule Updates"
source: "/space/nios90/280408857"
pageId: "280408857"
---
You can publish rule updates at any time after you have uploaded the ruleset. For information about uploading ruleset files, see *[Manually Uploading Rulesets](/nios90/by-id/280408834)*.  
To publish rule updates:

1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **Security** tab -&gt; **DNS Infrastructure Protection** **Rules** tab, and then click **Publish** **Changes** from the Toolbar.
2. In the *Publish* *Changes* dialog box, complete the following:
   
   - **Publish** **Changes** **on** **all** **Members**: Select one of the following:
     
     - **Simultaneously**: Publish changes on all of the members in the Grid at the same time.
     - **Sequentially**: Publish changes on each Grid member according to the number of seconds you enter in the **Sequential** **every** **(seconds)** field. For example, if you enter every 10 seconds, the system update changes on the first member, and 10 seconds later on the second member. This is the default option.
   - **Impacted** **Members** **and** **Services**: Click the Poll Members icon to display the affected members in that Grid. Grid Manager displays the member names and whether each member is configured for the DNS Infrastructure Protection service:
     
     - **Yes**: The service is active and the system will publish rule updates on this member upon execution of this task.
     - **No**: The service is not active and the system will not publish rule updates on this member.
     - **Disabled**: The service is currently disabled on this member.  
         
       To schedule this task, click the Schedule icon at the top of the dialog box. In the Schedule Change panel, complete the following:
     - **Now**: Publish rule updates upon clicking **Publish**.
     - **Later**: Enter the following information to schedule publishing updates at a certain date and time:
       
       - **Start**** Date**: Enter a date in YYYY-MM-DD (year-month-day) format. The appliance displays today's date. You can also click the calendar icon to select a date from the calendar widget.
       - **Start**** Time**: Enter a time in hh:mm:ss AM/PM (hours:minutes:seconds AM or PM) format. When you enter the time in a 24-hour format such as 23:00, Grid Manager displays 11:00:00 PM. You can also select a time from the drop-down list by clicking the time icon.
       - **Time ****Zone**: Select a time zone for the scheduled date and time from the drop-down list. This field displays the time zone of the browser that the admin uses to log in to Grid Manager.
3. Click **Publish** to publish changes immediately or click **Schedule** **Publish** to schedule the publish.

> **warning**
>
> **Note**
> 
> After you disable an auto rule through the command line interface, an error message may appear in the logs until the new rules are published.
> 
> For example:
> 
> `Cannot find the rule: 130900300 alerts=0 drops=1. If this problem persists, please contact Infoblox Technical Support'.`
