---
title: "Comparing and Merging Rulesets"
source: "/space/nios90/280668919"
pageId: "280668919"
---
After you manually download a ruleset and before you publish it, you can view differences between the old ruleset and the new one. The appliance shows you the system-level changes, including new rules, deleted rules, and rule syntax, between the two rulesets. It also shows you the customized parameter changes between the two versions. You can then select the changes you want to merge into the new ruleset. You can also modify some of these customized changes before you merge them into the new ruleset. Note that the modifications you make to the customized rule parameters will be added only to the new ruleset. When merging rulesets, all rules in the old ruleset and new ruleset are compared and identified by their rule IDs.  
To merge rules from an older ruleset version to a newer ruleset:

1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **Security** tab -&gt; **DNS Infrastructure** **Protection** **Rules** tab, click **Merge** from the Toolbar, and then select **Ruleset** from the drop-down list.
2. In the *Merge* *Changes* *Into* *Ruleset* editor, complete the following:
   
   - **Old** **Ruleset**: From the drop-down list, select the ruleset version from which you want to merge changes into the new ruleset. The **Comment** field displays additional information about the ruleset.
   - **New** **Ruleset**: From the drop-down list, select the ruleset version to which you want the changes to be merged. The **Comment** field displays additional information about the ruleset.
   - **Get** **Differences**: Click this to display a list of differences between the selected old and new ruleset versions. The appliance displays system-level changes in the **System** **changes** **from** **old** **ruleset** **(x** **items)** table, where x is the total number of changed rules between the old and new ruleset versions. The appliance merges all system-level changes listed in this table into the new ruleset.  
       
     The table displays the following information for each changed rule:
   - **Rule** **ID**: The rule ID of the changed rule. You can click the rule link and modify parameters in the rule editor.
   - **Rule**** Name**: The name of the rule.
   - **Type**: Indicates whether the rule is a newly added rule or it has been deleted.
   - **Old ****Ruleset**** Value**: Displays the old value that has been changed.
   - **New**** Ruleset ****Value**: Displays the newly changed value.  
       
     The **Customizations** **from** **old** **ruleset** **(x** **items)** table displays customized rule parameter changes between the old and new rulesets, where x is the total number of changed rules. You can select all or specific changed rules in this table to be merged into the new ruleset. You can also modify parameter for selected rules before merging the changes into the new ruleset. This table displays the following information for each rule:
   - **Member**: The Grid member on which this rule is currently running.
   - **Rule**** ID**: The rule ID of the changed rule. You can click the rule link and modify parameters in the rule editor.
   - **Rule**** Name**: The name of the rule.
   - **Old**** Ruleset**** Value**: Displays the old value that has been changed.
   - **New**** Ruleset ****Value**: Displays the newly changed value.
   - **Action**: Displays what the appliance will do to changes in this rule when you merge the rulesets.
3. Click **Merge** **Changes** to copy all the selected rules and changes you made to specific rules to the new ruleset. Note that you must select a rule from the **Customizations** **from** **old** **ruleset** **(x** **items)** table to activate the merging operation.

You can do the following in the *Merge* *Changes* *Into* *Ruleset* editor:

- Click **Export** to export all the changes listed in both tables to one CSV file. You can export this data after you click **Get** **Differences** and Grid Manager displays changes in both tables.
- Perform another ruleset merge by selecting another old ruleset and new ruleset.
- Click **Close** to exit the editor. Note that the editor does not close automatically after a merge.
