---
title: "Viewing DNS Infrastructure Protection Profiles"
source: "/space/nios90/280668825"
pageId: "280668825"
---
To view the list of DNS Infrastructure Protection profiles:

1. From the **Data ****Management** tab, select the **Security** tab, and then click the **Profiles** tab. Grid Manager displays the following information:
   
   - **Name**: The name of the DNS Infrastructure Protection profile. Click the *profile* name to view the rules that are associated with the selected DNS Infrastructure Protection profile. For more information about rules, see *[Viewing DNS Infrastructure Protection Rulesets](/nios90/by-id/280668850)*.
   - **Version**: The version of the DNS Infrastructure Protection profile.
   - **Members**: Displays the member associated with the DNS Infrastructure Protection profile. You can sort the values in this column.
   - **Comment**: Displays information that you specified for the DNS Infrastructure Protection profile.
   - **Site**: The location to which the member belongs. This is one of the predefined extensible attributes.

The **Disabled** column indicates whether the rule is enabled or disabled. The **Rule ID** column is set to grey for all rules that are disabled. The blue background for some parameters indicates that these parameters have been inherited from the Grid ruleset.

You can also do the following:

- Use **Global** **Search** to search for DNS Infrastructure Protection profiles by name, comment or object type. For information, see *[Using Global Search](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/performing-basic-operations-using-grid-manager/finding-and-restoring-data)*.

- Use **Smart** **Folders** to organize DNS Infrastructure Protection profiles by name, comment or object type. For information, see *[Smart Folders](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/smart-folders)*.
- To export the entire list of DNS Infrastructure Protection profiles in a csv format, click the Export icon and choose **Export** **Data** **in** **Infoblox** **CSV** **Import** **Format**. It also exports the customized rules for the profile. For more information, see *[Exporting Data to Files](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=nios90&title=Importing%20and%20Exporting%20Data%20using%20%20CSV%20Import&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=280668825)*. To export all data in a different format, click the Export icon and choose **Export** **Visible** **Data**. For more information, see *[Exporting Displayed Data](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=nios90&title=Importing%20and%20Exporting%20Data%20using%20%20CSV%20Import&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=280668825)*.
- Use filters and the **Go** **to** function to narrow down the list. With the autocomplete feature, you can just enter the first few characters of an object name in the **Go** **to** field and select the object from the possible matches.
- Create a quick filter to save frequently used filter criteria:
  
  1. In the filter section, click **Show** **Filter** and define filter criteria for the quick filter.
  2. Click **Save** and complete the configuration In the *Save* *Quick* *Filter* dialog box.

The appliance adds the quick filter to the quick filter drop-down list in the panel. Note that global filters are prefixed with [G], local filters with [L], and system filters with [S].
