---
title: "Using the Events Per Second Rule Setting"
source: "/space/nios90/281247745"
pageId: "281247745"
---
The **Events** **per** **second** setting allows for disabling or throttling of event logs for specific DNS Infrastructure Protection rules. The default value is one and the maximum value is 700. NIOS displays an error message when you enter a value greater than the maximum value. You can override this event filter at the member level.

Setting the **Events** **per** **second** parameter to zero disables logging for that rule. Setting the parameter to any other number enables DNS Infrastructure Protection logging for that specific rule. For information about how to configure this, see [*Configuring Grid Security Properties*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-infrastructure-security/about-infoblox-dns-infrastructure-protection/configuring-grid-security-properties).

Make note of the following guidelines when you enter a value in the **Events** **per** **Second** **per** **Rule** field:

- The value of this field is applicable only for rules that do not have `event-filter` as part of their format. The following is an example of a rule that has `event-filter` in its format:  
  `drop udp any any -&gt; any 53 (msg:"EARLY DROP UDP DNS named author attempts"; content:"|07|authors|04|bind|00|"; offset:12; sid:110100100; rev:1;) event_filter gen_id 1, sig_id 110100100, type limit, track by_src, count 1, seconds 1`
- For rules that have `event-filter` as part of their format, the event-filter precedes the value in the **Events** **per** **Second** **per** **Rule** field.
- Therefore, for rules that have `event-filter` as part of their format, to disable event logging for DNS Infrastructure Protection, you must disable it at the rule-level by modifying the syslog file. For rules that do not have `event-filter` as part of their format, to disable event logging for DNS Infrastructure Protection, set 0 in the **Events per Second per Rule** field.
- The **Events per second** setting for the 200000004 rule apply only during the first second of the drop interval. Unlike the 200000001, 200000002, and 200000003 rules, the response-type rules do not evaluate events every second, continuously. This is because, rules 200000001, 200000002, and 200000003 are IP-only rules that drop based on the IP address of the client. They push the drop mechanism out to the lower layer to be more efficient and therefore, most of the drops are not logged in the CEF log. The rule 200000004, on the contrary, has a condition that is based on the size of the payload, which requires additional filtering, and therefore, it is logged in the CEF log.
- The 200000001, 200000002, and 200000003 rules that are IP-only rules as described above, log only ALERTs. Sometimes, DROPs may be logged due to the response timing.   
  For example, when an NXDOMAIN response triggers an ALERT log, if the next NXDOMAIN response arrives within one second, it is not logged but DROPPED. This triggers drops at the IP layer if the source address of a query matches the source IP of the rate limiting address. However, if the next query has already arrived and is in the queue to DNS Infrastructure Protection, it will be processed by the rule-engine and dropped there instead with a DROP log. Packets arriving later will be dropped silently at the IP layer.
