---
title: "Guidelines for Configuring vDiscovery Jobs"
source: "/space/nios90/1468466127"
pageId: "1468466127"
---
Consider the following guidelines before starting a vDiscovery job:

- Discovered data through a specific vDiscovery job can only be modified by the same vDiscovery job. If you create a different vDiscovery job to discover the same network and some of the information in the network has changed, the newly discovered data and the original discovered data (now old data) co-exist in the database. For example, vDiscovery job "AWSJob1" discovers IP address 10.0.0.11 with VM name "corpxyz." This discovered data is stored in the NIOS database. You subsequently create a new vDiscovery Job "AWSJob2" to discover the same IP but now the VM name has been changed to "corp200." The discovered VM name for 10.0.0.11 is now "corp200." Both VM names "corpxyz" and "corp200" exit in the database until you run AWSJob1 again, and "corpxyz" will be removed from the database.
- If the "ERROR: PycURL" error is displayed when you run a vDiscovery job, it is possible that the cloud provider has updated their certificate. You need to download the latest certificate from the cloud provider website and upload it to NIOS. For example, for AWS, download the certificates from [https://www.amazontrust.com/repository/](https://www.amazontrust.com/repository/).
- If the “error:couldn't create memory pool" error is displayed during an AWS vDiscobery job, it means that a restart of services has not been performed by clicking **Restart Services** on the Toolbar when the Restart Banner is displayed on top of Grid Manger. If a service restart is delayed for any reason, the error will not be resolved even after the restart. To resolve the error, run the `set purge_restart_objects` CLI command.

- If you modify the names of network views created during a vDiscovery synchronisation, you must make corresponding changes in the name of their DNS view names. Otherwise, the subsequent vDiscovery jobs will fail. This is because, the network views created are named by using the format “&lt;tenant_ID&gt;_x” in which x is an incremental number and DNS views are named by using the format default.”&lt;tenant_ID&gt;_x”. If you replace the tenant ID in the network view name with a name of your choice, you must make similar changes in the DNS view name. For example, if you change a network view by name “123a-456b_1” to “private-Azure_1”, you must update its DNS view name from “default.123a-456b_1” to “default.private-Azure_1”.
- Infoblox does not recommend the assignment of link-local or unique local IPv6 addresses on vNIOS VM instances that must be discovered during vDiscovery. These addresses are intended only for local communication within an organization and they will be ignored during the vDiscovery synchronization.
- Cloud Extensible Attributes:
  
  - To merge discovered cloud extensible attributes into NIOS, you must have at least one cloud license (Cloud Network Automation or Cloud Platform) installed in the Grid. However, if you want to view the discovered cloud data in the **Cloud** tab of Grid Manager, you must have the Cloud Network Automation license installed on the Grid Master. Otherwise, even though the cloud data is merged into the NIOS database, you cannot view it through Grid Manager. For more information about Cloud Network Automation, see [*Deploying Cloud Automation Network*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280758966).
  - To synchronize tags discovered in AWS or Azure object instances as extensible attributes in NIOS, manually create a corresponding extensible attribute in NIOS for each AWS or Azure tag. For more information, see the *Extensible Attributes for Tags in AWS and Azure* section in the [*Extensible Attributes for Tags in Cloud Objects*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280407399) topic.
  - In addition, ensure that you select the auto consolidation options when defining policies for how to handle the discovered cloud extensible attributes, as described in *Defining Policies for Handling Discovered Data*. Note that only cloud extensible attributes for managed objects are updated. To update cloud extensible attributes for unmanaged objects, you can first convert the unmanaged objects to managed objects. For more information about Managing Unmanaged Data, see [*Managing Discovered Data*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280764086).
- When you select **VMware** as the endpoint server for the vDiscovery job, consider the following:
  
  - Typically, vDiscovery does not collect data about "Network" from VMware vSphere and vCenter servers. Therefore, you must first define a network in NIOS in order to discover IPs in the network.
  - However, if you use vCenter to define a network as "IP_Pool," which contains the CIDR for the network, vDiscovery is able to collect this data and translate it into a network. NIOS then creates the network and updates it with corresponding cloud extensible attributes.
  - If a VMware ESXi server cannot find the IP addresses associated with a VM, vDiscovery ignores the VM and may return a syslog error message "VM: &lt;*serial number*&gt; (name: &lt;*name*&gt;) has been ignored". To fix this issue, install VMware Tools on the VM instance.
- If you use an AWS Elastic IP address and select **AWS** as the endpoint server for the vDiscovery job, you must first manually create the network in NIOS before launching the vDiscovery job in order to discover the Elastic IP.
- Properties of a VM address (such as interface name, network encapsulation, segmentation, VLAN ID) can only be updated through cloud extensible attributes, depending on the policies you select when configuring a vDiscovery task. To properly integrate discovered VM address properties with NIOS, ensure that you do one of the following:
  
  - Define cloud extensible attributes for these properties through your cloud adapter. For information about how to define cloud extensible attributes, refer to the *Quick* *Start* *Guide* for your cloud adapter, available on the Support site.
  - Convert unmanaged VM addresses to managed so discovered cloud extensible attributes can be merged into NIOS. For more information, see [*Converting Unmanaged Data*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280406620).
  - Unmanaged objects in NIOS are updated with newly discovered data and stay as unmanaged objects. Managed objects in NIOS that have no conflict with newly discovered data are updated and stay as managed objects.
  - If there is conflict between managed objects in NIOS and newly discovered data, the managed objects are not updated and stay as managed objects while a conflict is flagged for these objects. For more  information about how to resolve the conflict, see [*Resolving Conflicting Addresses*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280406620).
  - NIOS does not automatically remove unmanaged objects that were discovered in the past but do not exist in current discoveries. This can happen if your network topology has changed in between discoveries. You can manually remove these unmanaged objects if you do not want them to stay in the database. For more information about how to remove these objects, see [*Clearing Unmanaged Data*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280406620)* *and* *[*Clearing Discovered Data*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280406620)*.*
  - For delegated DNS and DHCP objects, changes are handled by the delegated Cloud Platform Appliance based on the scope of delegation. Discovered data is still updated by the Grid Master.
- You cannot delete discovered tenants, networks, and VMs through the vDiscovery process. Conflict management is not supported for these objects. Note the following:
  
  - Discovered subnets are always created as managed networks. Pools of IP addresses (public pools) when discovered are translated into managed networks. Any discovered public IP that is not linked to a pool is marked as unmanaged data in NIOS, unless there is a corresponding network already created.
  - Tenant and VM information is merged into NIOS through cloud extensible attributes, only if there is a cloud license (Cloud Network Automation or Cloud Platform) installed in the Grid. Properties for unmanaged tenants and VMs are always updated while properties for managed tenants and VMs are updated only if auto-consolidation of tenant and VM information is selected when you configure the vDiscovery job.
- If a newly created vDiscovery job fails, first ensure that no control characters or permanently undefined Unicode characters such as non-breaking space, non-breaking hyphen, and so on are present in the job name.
