---
title: "About Reports"
source: "/space/nios90/280400960"
pageId: "280400960"
---
Infoblox provides reports that are named by core network service functions, such as DNS query and system utilization. Reports contain predefined search criteria that retrieve specific data from the reporting database. Each report is associated with a search. It is not recommended to modify predefined reports. However, when you run a search, you can save it as reports and share it with other users. You can also create a new report by cloning an existing report, and then modify the search criteria.  
You can also create a personal report in two different ways:

- Clone a report, as described in the  Cloning Reports section below.
- Saving a search as a report, as described in the Creating Reports from a Search section below.

> **warning**
>
> ### Note
> 
> IDNs are not supported on the reporting server. The reporting server manages IDNs in punycode. The reports generated by collecting reporting data from the DNS server displays all the data in punycode only.

You can do the following in the **Reports** tab:

1. From the **Reporting** tab, select the **Reports** tab -&gt; select a report.
2. In the **Reports** panel, you can do the following:
   
   - Open a report in the **Search** page and edit the report using the **Save** **As** menu. For information about Searches, see [*Home Dashboards*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-reporting-and-analytics/home-dashboards).
   - You can do the following using the **Edit** drop-down list:
     
     - Edit Description
     - Edit Permissions, as described in the Editing Permissions section, see [*Administrative Permissions*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-reporting-and-analytics/administrative-permissions-for-reporting-and-ana).
     - Edit Schedule, as described in the Scheduling Reports section below.
     - Clone a report, as described in the Cloning Reports section below.
