---
title: "Add Networks"
source: "/space/nios90/1346011199"
pageId: "1346011199"
---
You can create IPv4 and IPv6 networks from the Tasks Dashboard (either from scratch or from a network template that contains predefined properties). You can also create networks from the **Data** **Management** tab. For more information about IPv4 and IPv6 networks, see [*Configuring IPv4 Networks*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-ipv4-dhcp-data/configuring-ipv4-networks) and [*Configuring IPv6 Networks*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-ipv6-dhcp-data/configuring-ipv6-networks).

To add networks from the Tasks Dashboard:

1. Click **Add** **Networks** in the IPAM task pack and complete the following in the *Add* *Networks* wizard:
   
   - **Regional** **Internet** **Registry**: This section appears only when support for RIR updates is enabled. For information about RIR, see [*RIR Registration Updates*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/rir-registration-updates). Complete the following to create an RIR IPv4 network container or network:
     
     - **Internet** **Registry**: Select the RIR from the drop-down list. The default is **RIPE**. When you select **None**, the network is not associated with an RIR organization.
     - **Organization** **ID**: Click **Select** **Organization** and select an organization from the *RIR* *Organization* *Selector* dialog box.
     - **Registration** **Status**: The default is **Not** **Registered**. When adding an RIR allocated network, you can change this to **Registered** and select the **Do** **not** **update** **registrations** checkbox below. Note that when you select **API** as the communication method, the registration status will be updated automatically after the registration update is completed. However, when you select **Email** as the communication method, the registration status will not be automatically updated. If you are creating a new network and the registration update is completed successfully, the status will be changed to **Registered**. If the update fails, the status will be changed to **Not** **Registered**. The updated status and timestamp are displayed in the **Status** **of** **last** **update** field in the *IPv4* */IPv6* *Network* *Container* or *IPv4/IPV6* *Network* editor.
     - **Registration** **Action**: Select the registration action from the drop-down list. When you select **Create**, the appliance creates the IPv4 or IPv6 network and assigns it to the selected organization. When you select **None**, the appliance does not send registration updates to RIPE. When you are adding an existing RIR allocated network to NIOS, select **None**. When you are adding networks to an RIR allocated network (a parent network), select **Create**. Ensure that the parent network associated with an RIR organization already exists.
     - **Do** **not** **update** **registrations**: Select this checkbox if you do not want the appliance to submit RIR updates to RIPE. By default, the appliance sends updates to the RIR database based on the configured communication method.
   - **Network** **View**: This appears only when you have multiple network views. From the drop-down list, select the network view in which you want to create the network.
   - **Protocol**: Select **IPv4** to add IPv4 networks and **IPv6** to add IPv6 networks.
   - **Netmask**: Enter the netmask or use the netmask slider to select the appropriate number of subnet mask bits for the network.
   - **Template**: Click **Select** **Template** to select a network template. When you use a template to create a network, the configuration of the template applies to the new network. If the template specifies a fixed netmask, you cannot edit the netmask in this dialog. You can click **Clear** to remove the template. For information about templates, see [*About IPv6 Network Templates*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-dhcp-templates/about-ipv6-network-templates).
   - **Use** **Active** **Directory** **Sites:** This checkbox is displayed only if you install the Microsoft license. Click the Add icon to associate multiple Active Directory Sites with the network. When you click Add, the appliance displays the following:
     
     - **Active** **Directory** **Domain**: The Active Directory Domains that are synchronized from the Microsoft server.  
       Click an Active Directory Domain that you want to associate.  
       To search for a particular Active Directory Domain, specify the respective name and click **Go**. If there are multiple Active Directory Domains, the appliance displays the list of such domains by paging to the next page. You can use the page navigation buttons that are displayed at the bottom of this column to navigate through the Active Directory Domains. You can also refresh the values in the column using the Refresh icon.
     - **Active** **Directory** **Site**: The Active Directory Sites that are associated with the selected Active Directory Domain. Click an Active Directory Site that you want to associate with the network.  
       To search for a particular Active Directory Site, specify the respective name and click **Go**. If there are multiple Active Directory Sites, the appliance displays the list of such sites by paging to the next page. You can use the page navigation buttons that are displayed at the bottom of this column to navigate through the Active Directory Sites. You can also refresh the values in the column using the Refresh icon.
     - Click **Add** to add the selected Active Directory Sites to the network or click **Cancel** to cancel the operation. The appliance displays these domains and sites in the respective columns. Click the x icon if you want to close the Active Directory Domains and Sites selector.
     - Click the Delete icon to delete Active Directory Sites that are associated with the network.

For more information about Active Directory Domains and Sites, see [*Configuring Active Directory Sites and Services*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-windows-servers/configuring-active-directory-sites-and-services).

NIOS may execute discovery on the newly created network after you save your settings. When you create a network in NIOS, it inherits its discovery capabilities (whether or not it is immediately discovered, its polling settings, and any possible exclusions from discovery), from its parent network (if it has one) or its network container. If the new network is a parent network, it inherits its polling settings from the Grid and its discovery member selection and Enable Discovery action must be defined by the user.

- **Networks**: Do one of the following to add new networks:  
  Click the Add icon to create a new network.
  
  - For IPv4 networks: Grid Manager adds a row to the table. Enter the network address in the **Network** field. Click the Add icon to add another network. You can also select a network and click the Delete icon to delete it.
  - For IPv6 networks: If you are adding a network for a previously defined global IPv6 prefix, you can select the prefix from the **IPv6** **Prefix** drop-down list. The default is **None**, which means that you are not creating an IPv6 network for a previously defined subnet route. If you have defined a global prefix at the Grid level, the default is the global prefix value. Click **Add** and Grid Manager adds a row to the table. Enter the network address in the **Network** field. When you enter an IPv6 address, you can use double colons to compress a contiguous sequence of zeros. You can also omit any leading zeros in a four-hexadecimal group. For example, the complete IPv6 address 2001:0db8:0000:0000:0000:0000:0102:0304 can be shortened to 2001:db8::0102:0304. Note that if there are multiple noncontiguous groups of zeros, the double colon can only be used for one group to avoid ambiguity. The appliance displays an IPv6 address in its shortened form, regardless of its form when it was entered. Click **Add** again to add another network. You can also select a network and click the Delete icon to delete it.  
    or
    
    Click the Next Available icon to have the appliance search for the next available network. For more information about the next available network, see [*Configuring the Next Available Network or IP Address*](#). Complete the following in the Next Available Networks section:
  - **Create** **new** **network(s)** **under**: Enter the network container in which you want to create the new network. When you enter a network that does not exist, the appliance adds it as a network container. When you enter a network that is part of a parent network, the parent network is converted into a network container if it does not have a member assignment or does not contain address ranges, fixed addresses, reservations, shared networks, and host records that are served by DHCP. When you enter a network that has a lower CIDR than an existing network, the appliance creates the network as a parent network and displays a message indicating that the newly created network overlaps an existing network. You can also click **Select** **Network** to select a specific network in the *Network* *Selector* dialog box. For information about how the appliance searches for the next available network, see [*Configuring the Next Available Network or IP Address*](#).
  - **Number** **of** **new** **networks**: Enter the number of networks you want to add to the selected network container. Note that if there is not enough network space in the selected network to create the number of networks specified here, Grid Manager displays an error message. The maximum number is 20 at a time. Note that when you have existing networks in the table and you select one, the number you enter here includes the selected network.
    
    - Click **Add** **Next** to add the networks. Grid Manager lists the networks in the table. You can click **Cancel** to reset the values.

Note that you must click Add Next to add the network container you enter in the Next Available Networks section. If you enter a network in the Next Available Networks section and then use the Add icon to add another network, the appliance does not save the network you enter in the Next Available Networks section until you click Add Next.

- **Extensible ** **Attributes**: Click the Add icon to enter extensible attributes. Grid Manager adds a row to the table each time you click the Add icon. Select the row and the attribute name from the drop-down list, and then enter the value. All inheritance attributes which can be inherited from a parent object will be automatically inherited when you add a network. Inheritable extensible attributes that are required are automatically displayed. Optional extensible attributes that are not inheritable are not automatically displayed. For more information about extensible attributes, see [*Managing Extensible Attributes*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-appliance-operations/managing-extensible-attributes).
- If you are adding an RIR network, the RIR network attribute table appears. For information about these attributes and how to enter them, see [*Managing RIR Attributes*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/rir-registration-updates/managing-rir-attributes).  
  **Preview** ** RIR** ** Submissions**: Click this to view the updates before the appliance submits them to the RIPE database. This button is enabled only when the registration action is **Create**, **Modify**, or **Delete**, and the **Do ** **not** ** update ** **registrations** checkbox is not selected.

1. Save the configuration.

or

Click the **Schedule** icon at the top of the wizard to schedule this task. In the *Schedule* *Change* panel, click **Later** and enter a date, time, and time zone. For information, see [*Managing Extensible Attributes*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-appliance-operations/managing-extensible-attributes).

The appliance saves the networks you just created, and Grid Manager displays them in the Result page. When you click a newly created network on this page, Grid Manager displays the **IP** **Map** panel from which you can view detailed information about the network. For information about the IP Map panel, see [*Viewing and Managing IPv4 Addresses*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/ip-address-management/managing-ip-addresses/viewing-and-managing-ipv4-addresses).

You can also add and modify other information about the networks you just created. For information about modifying network information, see [*Managing IPv4 DHCP Data*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-ipv4-dhcp-data) and [*Managing IPv6 DHCP Data*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dhcp/managing-ipv6-dhcp-data).
