---
title: "Adding SRV Records"
source: "/space/nios90/1423114547"
pageId: "1423114547"
---
1. From the **Data** **Management** tab, select the **DNS** tab, expand the Toolbar and click **Add** -> **Record** -> **Add** **SRV** **Record**.
2. In the *Add* *SRV* *Record* wizard, complete the following fields:
   
   - **Display input as**: Select the format in which you want the SRV record to be displayed. When you select RFC 2782 format, the appliance follows the _*service._protocol.name* format as defined in RFC 2782. When you select Free format, enter the entire name in the Domain field.
   - **Service:** Specify the service that the host provides. You can either select a service from the list or type in a service, if it is not on the list. For example, if you are creating a record for a host that provides FTP service, select _ftp. To distinguish the service name labels from the domain name, the service name is prefixed with an underscore. If the name of the service is defined at [*http://www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers/service-names-port-numbers.xml*](http://www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers/service-names-port-numbers.xml), use that name. Otherwise, you can use a locally-defined name.
   - Protocol: Specify the protocol that the host uses. You can either select a protocol from the list or type in a protocol, if it is not on the list. For example, if it uses TCP, select _tcp. To distinguish the protocol name labels from the domain name, the protocol name is prefixed with an underscore.
   - **Domain:** If Grid Manager displays a zone name, enter the name here to define an SRV record for a host or subdomain. The displayed zone name can either be the last selected zone or the zone from which you are adding the SRV record. If no zone name is displayed or if you want to specify a different zone, click **Select** **Zone**. When there are multiple zones, Grid Manager displays the *Zone* *Selector* dialog box. Click a zone name in the dialog box, and then enter the name to define the SRV record. The NIOS appliance prefixes the name you enter to the domain name of the selected zone. For example, if you want to create an SRV record for a web server whose host name is [www2.corpxyz.com](http://www2.corpxyz.com) and you define the SRV record in the [corpxyz.com](http://corpxyz.com) zone, enter www2 in this field. To define an SRV record for a domain whose name matches the selected zone, leave this field blank. The NIOS appliance automatically adds the domain name (the same as the zone name) to the SRV record. For example, if you want to create an SRV record for the [corpxyz.com](http://corpxyz.com) domain and you selected the [corpxyz.com](http://corpxyz.com) zone, leave this field blank.
   - **Preview**: After you have entered all the information, this field displays the FQDN, which is the concatenation of the Service, Protocol, and Domain fields.
   - **Shared** **Record** **Group**: This field appears only when you are creating a shared record. Click **Select** **Shared** **Record** **Group**. If you have only one shared record group, the appliance displays the name of the shared record group here. If you have multiple shared record groups, select the shared record group in the *Shared* *Record* *Group* *Selector* dialog box. You can use filters or the **Go** **to** function to narrow down the list.
   - **Priority:** Select or enter an integer from 0 to 65535. The priority determines the order in which a client attempts to contact the target host; the domain name host with the lowest number has the highest priority and is queried first. Target hosts with the same priority are attempted in the order defined in the **Weight** field.
   - **Weight:** Select or enter an integer from 0 to 65535. The weight allows you to distribute the load between target hosts. The higher the number, the more that host handles the load (compared to other target hosts). Larger weights give a target host a proportionately higher probability of being selected.
   - **Port:** Specify the appropriate port number for the service running on the target host. You can use standard or nonstandard port numbers, depending on the requirements of your network. You can select a port number from the list or enter an integer from 0 to 65535.
   - **Target:** Enter the canonical domain name of the host (not an ALIAS); for example, [www2.corpxyz.com](http://www2.corpxyz.com).
     
     In addition, you need to define an A record mapping the canonical name of the host to its IP address.
   - **Comment:** Enter a descriptive comment for the record.
   - **Disable:** Clear the checkbox to enable the record. Select the checkbox to disable it.
3. Save the configuration or click **Next** to define extensible attributes. For information, see [*Managing Extensible Attributes*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280274215).
4. Click **Restart** if it appears at the top of the screen.
