---
title: "Adding Filters to the Class Filter List"
source: "/space/nios90/1320357480"
pageId: "1320357480"
---
You can apply any DHCP filter to the Class Filter List of a DHCP range or range template. The appliance uses the matching rules of these filters to select the address range from which it assigns a lease. You can define permissions for these filters to instruct the appliance whether to grant or deny a lease to the matching client. When you add a filter with a grant permission, the client must match the filter criteria to receive a lease. When you define a filter with a deny permission, clients that do not match the filter criteria still receive leases. Only the client that matches the filter criteria is denied a lease.  
Filters in the Class Filter List correspond to the class statement generated in the dhcpd configuration file, which is a classification of the client packet. All DHCP clients that match the option filter and relay agent filter criteria become members of the same class and are eligible to receive DHCP options for that class, regardless of the networks in which the clients reside. However, a client can only become a member of the MAC or NAC filter class when it is granted a lease from the DHCP range based on the filter criteria. Whether a client receives specific options and option values depends on the hierarchy of the options and how you apply the filters. For information about how the appliance returns DHCP options, see [*Adding Filters to the Logic Filter List*](#).
