---
title: "Configuring the Threat Indicator Caching Feature"
source: "/space/nios90/1457291306"
pageId: "1457291306"
---
Complete the following to configure the threat indicator caching feature:

1. From the **Infoblox Grid** tab, select the **Grid Manager** tab and click the **Services** tab. In the **Services** tab, select the **Reporting** tab and click **Edit** -> **Grid Reporting Properties** from the Toolbar.
2. In the **Grid Reporting Properties** editor, select the **Threat Indicator Caching** tab-> **Basic** tab.
   
   1. **Enable Threat Indicator Caching**: Select the checkbox to enable the feature. Enabling this feature downloads the threat indicator information from the Infoblox Portal to the Grid Master, and then the threat indicator information is indexed on the reporting members.
      
      Note that selecting this option results in higher indexing license usage, network bandwidth, and storage.
3. Complete the following:
   
   1. **Splunk Threat Indicator Caching Index Storage**: Specifies the disk storage allocation for the threat indicator caching feature. The minimum disk storage limit is 8 GB and the maximum disk space that it can be set to is 42 GB. By default, the disk storage space is set to 12 GB. The disk space that you allocate will reduce the storage limit for all other indexes. Set the required storage space based on the volume of data that you expect to be downloaded from the Infoblox Portal and based on your indexing capacity. Grid Master downloads the threat indicator data and periodically forwards it to the reporting server for indexing.  
      The indexing usage that is observed by Infoblox during the lab testing is, one full synchronization consumes ~600 to ~800 MB of indexing space and each incremental synchronization consumes ~60 MB of indexing space.
      
      Note that the indexing space usage varies on a daily basis based on data generated by the Infoblox Portal. Therefore, do not consider the numbers stated here as standard guidelines.
   2. **Incremental Threat Indicator Caching Update Interval** (in hours): Enter the interval value in hours to download the incremental updates from the threat indicators of the Infoblox Portal. For example, if you set the value as 2, after every two hours the incremental threat indicator is downloaded. The incremental threat indicator is downloaded only after the whole threat indicator is downloaded from the Infoblox Portal.
   3. **Last Incremental Threat Indicator Caching Download Timestamp**: Displays the date and time of the last successful incremental threat database download.
   4. **Update Policy**: Select **Automatic** or **Manual**. You need to select any one of the following options in order to avoid huge data storage usage on Splunk.
      
      1. **Automatic**: Select this option if you want to automatically download the whole database after every seven days. By default, the value is set to seven days.
      2. **Manual**: Select this option to schedule the whole database download manually. For more information on threat context locale cache scheduler, see Scheduling Threat Indicator Caching below.
      3. **Test Connection**: Click **Test Connection** to test the connectivity between NIOS and the Infoblox Portal Configuration. Then, enter the Infoblox Portal Configuration credentials on the** Infoblox Threat Defense Cloud Integration** tab. For more information about configuring and enabling the Infoblox Threat Defense Cloud Client, see [*Configuring Integration with Infoblox Threat Defense Cloud*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280759852) and [*Configuring Infoblox Threat Defense Cloud Clients for Outbound*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280759852), respectively.
   5. **Last Whole Threat Indicator Caching Download Timestamp**: Displays the date and time of the last successful whole threat indicator download.
   6. **Scheduling**: Select to schedule the whole threat indicator download. You can select **Scheduling** only if the **Update Policy** is selected as **Manual**.
   7. **Last Threat Indicator Caching Failure Timestamp**: Displays the date and time of the last failed attempt that is made to download the threat indicators after five iterations.
