---
title: "NIOS 9.0.6 - Changes to Default Behavior"
source: "/space/nios90/1323565220"
pageId: "1323565220"
---
- The following are the changes in BIND behavior with respect to CVE-2024-11187:
  
  - In NIOS 8.6.x, when responding to queries of types other than ANY, BIND will not add records to the additional section if the corresponding answer or authority record set contains more than 20 records. For example, if an MX record set in the answer section contains more than 20 mail exchange server names, the corresponding A/AAAA records will be omitted from the additional section. This is the case even for glue records needed for delegation. If a zone is delegated to more than 20 nameservers, the DNS response will include all the nameserver records in the authority section, but the A/AAAA glue records will be omitted from the additional section. This means external recursive servers now cannot resolve names in the delegated zone. NIOS 8.6.x does not support the glue-cache feature. Using the ISC-provided limit of 13 can cause behavioral regression if a delegation contains more than 13 nameservers, as glue records will be omitted from the additional section if the number of records exceeds 13. Therefore, the limit has been increased from 13 to 20.
  - In NIOS 9.0.x, when responding to queries of types other than ANY, BIND will not add records to the additional section if the corresponding answer or authority resource record set contains more than 13 records, unless the additional section records are necessary glue records. For example, if an MX resource record in the answer section contains more than 13 mail exchange server names, the corresponding A/AAAA records will be omitted from the additional section. Even if a zone is delegated to more than 13 nameservers, the DNS response will still include A/AAAA glue records for the nameservers in the additional section. This behavior uses the efficient BIND's glue-cache and is not vulnerable to CVE-2024-11187.
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, Perl API (PAPI) functionality has been disabled by default until you
  
  enable it by running the `set perl_mod_access` CLI command.
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, IPAM synchronization on NetMRI discovered devices has been
  
  disabled by default. See the KB article [Unable to perform IPAM synchronization on NetMRI  discovered devices](https://support.infoblox.com/s/article/Unable-to-perform-IPAM-synchronisation) for IPAM synchronization to work with NetMRI devices.
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, you need to add the &lt;Calling-Station-ID&gt; attribute to the RADIUS request packet. This attribute contains the MAC address of the device initiating the connection.
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, data in scroll tables (tables in which you scroll down the screen to see all the rows) take time to load as and when the number of records in the table increases. When that happens, any operation performed during that time will be in a queue and sometimes when the data load time is more, a browser pop-up message of “page unresponsive” is displayed. In this case, please wait till the page loads and then the operations is executed once the table data is loaded.
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, selecting the **Force copy join token configured for the Grid Master to all Grid Master Candidates** checkbox in the *Grid Properties Editor* &gt; **Infoblox Portal Configuration** screen, automatically copies the join token configured on the Grid Master to all existing Grid Master Candidates and any new candidates that you create in future. For more information, see [IPAM Federation](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/ipam-federation).
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, the visibility of IPv6 fields in Grid Manager has increased to a maximum length of 40 characters thus enhancing the ease of editing these fields. In earlier versions, the maximum length of visibility was 20 characters.
- NIOS allocates a dedicated database and associated memory cache for logging leases in each member of the Grid.  This memory consumes approximately 3 GiB for a 64 GiB machine and can be tuned to use a larger cache. Because there is only one logging member in the Grid that has enabled lease logging, only this member needs to have the additional cache allocated for lease logging and other members do not need to allocate the cache from memory. Starting with 9.0.6, there is only minimum cache size allocated for non-logging members resulting in more memory available for other operations.  When a host is assigned as a logging member, there is a reboot required to properly configure cache size on that logging member. Unlike prior releases, all other members save memory due to not allocating resources for the lease logging database. Similarly, when a host is unassigned from being a logging member, it needs to be rebooted to free up previous allocated resources. The logdb cache size for all Grid members except for the DHCP lease logging member is set to 8 MiB.
- After an upgrade to NIOS 9.0.6, ensure that you clone the data in the Manage DDI Peak IP Usage Trend dashboard and use the newly cloned dashboard. If you clone the Manage DDI Peak IP Usage Trend dashboard before the upgrade and use the clone, the reported data may be incorrect.
- Starting from NIOS 9.0.6, NIOS does not support SHA1 certificates. Do not generate Apache and CA certificates by using the SHA1 option although the option is available in the Grid Manager.
- In versions earlier than NIOS 9.0.6, if a DNS service shutdown does not take place within 60 seconds, SIGQUIT is triggered for the DNS service and a core file is generated. From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, the default graceful shutdown time is 20 seconds if the `set named_max_exit_wait` CLI command has not been configured.
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, upgrade status logs are captured in the Grid Master log files. You can view these logs using the show log debug follow /UPGRADE_STATUS/ CLI command. This command also displays the actual distribution/ upgrade status when distributing/upgrading to 9.0.6 from any source versions.
- NIOS 9.0.6 uses Splunk version 9.2.4.
- The following are the changes to behavior with regard to the` tcpdump -i `CLI command.
  
  - In versions earlier than NIOS 9.0.6, the `tcpdump -i `any CLI command displayed duplicate packets in DNS requests and responses when DNS Cache Acceleration or Threat Protection was enabled. From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, the duplicate packets have been removed and will not be displayed.
  - ` tcpdump -i `any trailer packets have been removed for IP packets; for non IP packets, the trailer is still shown in packet captures.
  - `tcpdump -i` any displays the Ethernet header in hexadecimal format even if the   
    -pevvvvxxx option is not specified.
  - Supported tcpdump -i any options are -t*, -X*, -v*, -n, -s0, -w. Other options starting with - may or may not work.
  - Packets with trailer that consists of magic cookie (starting with 0x1720090181190726) in the IP packets have been filtered out and only the original query and response of the non-trailer packets are captured. This is only for IP packets. Non IP packets retain their earlier behavior.
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, the password requirements for Lights Out Management (LOM) users have been updated. The password check is now enforced only at the time of creating the LOM user. See the “About Lights Out Management” topic in the NIOS online documentation for the guidelines to be followed when creating or modifying LOM users.
- Starting from NIOS 9.0.6, Network Insight in addition to displaying neighbors discovered through physical interfaces, also displays neighbors discovered through virtual interfaces. The neighbors are displayed alongside one another thus ensuring complete visibility of network connectivity.
- The default value of the **Limit number of recursive clients to** field has changed from 1000 to 5000.
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, combination threat feeds have been deprecated. For information about NIOS RPZ feed recommendations, the release of new threat feeds in April 2024, and best practices for transitioning to the new threat feeds, see the “Feed Revamp for NIOS” topic in the Infoblox Threat Defense documentation. For a list of all supported Threat Intelligence feeds, see the “Supported Threat Intelligence Feeds” topic in the Infoblox Threat Defense documentation at [https://docs.infoblox.com/page/security](https://docs.infoblox.com/page/security)
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, the system assigned identity must be used while deploying a vNIOS for Azure HA pair if you want to use multiple user-assigned managed identities. For more information, see *the vNIOS Infoblox Installation Guide for Microsoft Azure* at [https://docs.infoblox.com/space/Appliances/35364966/Virtual+Appliances](https://docs.infoblox.com/space/Appliances/35364966/Virtual+Appliances)
- From NIOS 9.0.6 onwards, BloxConnect is enabled by default. To disable the configuration, perform the following steps. For greater details about disabling BloxConnect, see [Disabling BloxConnect](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/about-bloxconnect/disabling-bloxconnect).
