---
title: "NIOS 9.0.0 - Changes to Default Behavior"
source: "/space/nios90/1323532480"
pageId: "1323532480"
---
- ·ISC has modified the dnssec-dsfromkey tool behavior for DS (Delegation Signer) record generation when no algorithm is passed. When no algorithm is passed:
  
  - In BIND 9.11, both SHA1 and SHA256 digests are generated when converting DNSKEY records to DS records.
  - In BIND 9.16, only SHA256 digest is generated when converting a DNSKEY record to a DS record.
- In NIOS 8.6 and earlier versions, BIND allowed the configuration of the listen-on, notify-source, and query-source options on port 53 for both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. However, starting from NIOS 9.0.x onwards, this configuration is not recommended as BIND does not support the listen-on, notify source, and query-source options to use the same port for both IPv4 and IPv6. Having this configuration can cause BIND to fail during start-up.
- BIND 9.16 introduces a change in behavior for forwarders (for a particular fetch context) when an upstream query directed to the forwarder times out. The behavior is applicable in a “forward-first” configuration. The change marks a forwarder which does not respond to an query (for a particular fetch) sent by a resolver as a “bad server”. The forwarder is no longer contacted for the rest of the delegation points for the fetch.
- From NIOS 9.0.0 onwards, Infoblox recommends that you do not use fetches per server or fetches per zone with forwarders.
- From NIOS 9.0.0 onwards, when you define a sort list using the *Grid DNS Properties* &gt; **Sort List** tab, ensure that you select or add a correct network and make sure that you set the correct prefix or netmask. Otherwise, the DNS service fails to start because of invalid configuration and an error is logged in the syslog file. An example of an invalid configuration is 11.14.73.0/16.
- In the NIOS 8.x releases, warning messages were displayed if the correct prefix or netmask was not set. However, in 9.x releases, the DNS service fails and an error is logged in the syslog file.

Example of the warning message in the 8.x releases: warning /infoblox/var/named_conf/named.conf:60: ‘11.14.73.0/16': address/prefix length mismatch

Example of the syslog error in the 9.x releases: (81278 /infoblox/dns/bin/named_control) : /infoblox/var/named_conf/named.conf:65: ‘11.14.73.0/16': address/prefix length mismatch '16'

- In NIOS 9.0.0, LDAP requests to the LDAP server and Active Directory server cannot be sent using the MGMT IP address, because OpenLDAP version 2.4.49 (Ubuntu) removed the options of binding the source IP address on the client. Therefore, an LDAP request or an Active Directory authentication request is always sent through the LAN IP address, even though you have enabled the **Connect through Management Interface** option.
- From NIOS 9.0.0 onwards, in the **Administration** &gt; **Administrators** &gt; **Authentication Policy** &gt; **Authenticate users against these services in this order** area, if the **Authentication Server Groups is the authority for** option is set to **Passwords of Local users**, the up and down arrows at the right will be disabled if you select the **Local Admin** checkbox. That is, you will not be able to change the order of the local admin user.
- Due to new validation checks introduced in BIND 9.16, a few resource records that were valid in BIND 9.11 are considered invalid in BIND 9.16. If you add such invalid resource records to a zone, the zone fails to load after an upgrade or a Grid restore. An error message is displayed if you add invalid resource records resource records with invalid RDATA under a zone.
- NIOS 9.0.0 introduces the set rpz_add_soa command that allows a local admin with superuser permission to add an SOA record to an RPZ response at a view level. If this command is togged to YES, any RPZ policy rule matches and results in a modified answer, then the modified answer will include in its additional section the SOA record of the policy zone whose rule was used to generate the modified answer. The SOA record includes the name of the DNS RPZ and the serial number of the policy data which was connected to the DNS control plane when the answer was modified. This command is only available on the Grid Master. For more information, see the “[*set rpz_add_soa*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-nios-cli/set-commands/set-rpz-add-soa)” topic in the NIOS 9.0 online documentation.
- In NIOS 9.0.0, the additional-from-auth option has been made obsolete by ISC. BIND does not follow CNAMEs and DNAMEs to zones other than the target zone. Hence, record chains do not work as expected.
- In NIOS 9.0.*x*, the Cisco ISE endpoint (Cisco pxGrid 1.0) has been deprecated.
- In NIOS 8.6.2, when you log on to FTP using as an anonymous user, the default path was /storage/tftpboot. In NIOS 9.0.*x*, the default path is /storage/tftpboot_anon with permission 0755.
- NIOS 9.0.0 introduces two new CLI commands to set the DDNS update quota and the DDNS update forwarding quota versions. For more information about these commands, see the “set dns_update_quota” and the “set dns_update_forwarding_quota” topics in the NIOS 9.0 online documentation.
  
  - set dns_update_quota : Use the set dns_update_quota command to set the maximum number of update events queued onto a zone task. The number must be between 200 and 2500 (inclusive). The default value is 1024.
  - set dns_update_forwarding_quota: Use the set dns_update_forwarding_quota command to set the maximum number of forwarding update events (queued onto a zone task).
- In NIOS 9.0.*x*, distribution fails when an Infoblox-generated Apache certificate is uploaded for keys lower than 2048 bits or if the certificate has expired.
- NIOS 9.0.0 supports the discovery resizable image with a minimum disk size of 100 GB.
- In NIOS 9.0.*x*, integration with BIND 9.16 increases the RPZs from 32 to 64. That is, subscriber services support an subscriber secure policy (SSP) of 64 bits. Only rules within the particular RPZs will be enforced by subscriber services. The first 5 RPZs are used as default and enforced on subscribers without an SSP.  The number of default RPZs remains at 5. In a parental control configuration, the rules in RPZ 31 have a special use case as a proxy allow list. All rules (domains) are passthru to allow them to never proxy.  
  There are no changes to the proxy allow list with the addition of 64 RPZ zones. Rules in the thirty first RPZ zone will be passthru rules as existing in earlier NIOS releases. The remaining RPZ zones (32 - 63) can be used just like other RPZ zones. All RPZ responses (modified or otherwise, including NXDOMAIN/NODATA) will not have the SOA record in the ADDITIONAL SECTION of the RPZ query response.
- In NIOS 9.0.*x*, when rotating log files, only the syslog rotated files are maintained.
- In NIOS 9.0.*x*, the cipher list order has changed compared to earlier NIOS versions.
- In NIOS 9.0.*x* the weak and vulnerable ciphers named RC4 and 3DES have been deprecated. Additionally, the SAML library also deprecates the DHE ciphers. Infoblox recommends that you keep these weak ciphers disabled as this can affect both the Apache and SAML services. Even if these ciphers are enabled, they will be visible as enabled in the output but they will not be effective as they have been deprecated.
- Upgrading a NIOS 8.x Grid that is configured with Thales HSM to NIOS 9.0 is not supported. Also, configuring Thales HSM in a new NIOS 9.0 Grid is not supported. Infoblox recommends that you unsign zones that were signed using Thales and that you disable HSM signing before disabling Thales modules.
- From NIOS 9.0.0 onwards, bloxTools has been deprecated.
- From NIOS 9.0.0 onwards, the following appliances have been deprecated: PT-1405, PT-2205, PT-2205-10GE, IB-4030-10GE.
- FIPS is not supported in NIOS 9.0.*x*.
- From NIOS 9.0.0 onwards, the Unbound resolver has been deprecated and all the references to Unbound will be destroyed after a NIOS upgrade.
- From NIOS 9.0.0 onwards, during a restore operation or a CSV import, Unbound-related configurations (using the *Grid DNS Properties* screen), Unbound-related licenses, and DNS Unbound under external syslog categories will be removed.
- In NIOS 9.0.*x*, support for the DNSSEC algorithm 1 (RSAMD5), algorithm 3 (DSA), and algorithm 6 (DSA-NSEC3-SHA1) has been removed.
- DNS service restart may take longer in NIOS 9.0.x compared to NIOS 8.6.x. In NIOS 8.6, the DNS service would exit anyway if there were tasks blocking DNS service shutdown for more than a few seconds. In NIOS 9.0.x the DNS service attempts to perform a graceful shutdown even if it takes up to 60 seconds (at which point, the supervisor script forcibly kills the DNS service).
- In NIOS 9.0.x, as per changes from ISC BIND 9.16, in case of an authoritative only server (with no recursion), if a CNAME record or a host alias record points to a different zone than the one where the CNAME or host alias itself is located, the CNAME record is returned and the Additional Section of the answer will not be populated, as doing so requires a recursive query.
- In NIOS 8.x and earlier versions, the authoritative only server returned not only the CNAME record but also the Additional Section of the answer if available, even though this technically violated the configuration of “no recursion”. This was not an issue unless you had a non-recursive resolver (such as a stub resolver) querying an authoritative only server directly, as a stub resolver required a recursive resolver for resolving queries.
