---
title: "Limitations of Using a Combination of a Physical Appliance and a Virtual Appliance for HA"
source: "/space/nios90/1432787074"
pageId: "1432787074"
---
Although you can use a combination of a physical and virtual appliance for an HA pair, using the deployment has the following limitations:

- Check whether the NIOS licenses that you subscribed to support both physical and virtual appliances.
- Ensure that the same licenses are installed on both the physical appliance and the virtual appliance.
- You cannot have tagged and untagged interfaces on the same subnet on VMware ESXi hypervisors.
- LOM (Lights Out Management) is not supported in a hybrid HA setup.
- Because port settings are not available for virtual appliances, you cannot join a node if the port settings are overridden.
- You cannot combine a platform on which DNS Infrastructure Protection hardware is running with a platform on which DNS Infrastructure Protection Software is running.
- You can configure MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) only on the physical node in a hybrid HA setup.
- You can have a combination of an IB-FLEX and a non IB-FLEX appliance. However, Infoblox does not recommend using such a combination.
- Auto-provisioning is not supported on virtual appliances; therefore, you cannot use the auto-provisioning feature in a hybrid HA setup.
- A hybrid HA setup may cause some performance impact because hybrid HA performance depends on many factors such as the hardware on which the VM is running, the number of VMs contending for the same CPU, RAM, input/output resources, and the overhead generated by the virtualisation layer.
- Minor performance differences are expected between the two nodes of a hybrid HA pair. Hybrid HA performance may vary, and it depends on the hardware components on which different virtualization platforms are running and the performance delivered by Infoblox hardware appliances. Different use cases will produce different numbers (slightly increased or decreased CPU usage, disk access time, and so on). Such performance variation is expected and is not a cause of concern.
