---
title: "Configuring Automatic Conversion Rules"
source: "/space/nios90/1462338205"
pageId: "1462338205"
---
To add automatic conversion rules:

1. From the **Infoblox** **Grid** tab, select the **Grid** **Manager** tab, and click **Edit** **–&gt;** **Grid** **Discovery** **Properties** from the Toolbar.
2. Click the **Conversion** **Policy** tab and complete the following:
   
   - **Enable** **the** **automatic** **conversion** **rules** **defined** **for** **newly** **discovered** **IP** **addresses**: Select this checkbox to enable the automatic conversion of unmanaged IP addresses of newly discovered entities to managed objects in a specific network view. This is disabled by default.
   - **Update** **discovered** **data** **for** **managed** **objects**: Select this checkbox if you want the appliance to update discovered data for all corresponding NIOS objects (if they exist in NIOS), such as A records, PTR records, host records, and fixed addresses, with the discovered data. If you do not select this checkbox, the appliance updates only the discovered data for unmanaged objects. None of the managed data will be updated. This checkbox is selected by default, but is disabled if you do not enable the automatic conversion feature.  
     Click the Add (+) icon and Grid Manager adds a row to the table (this table is enabled only when you enable the automatic conversion feature).  Complete the following:
   - **Network View:** From the drop-down list, select the network view in which your conversion rule will take effect. Note that this rule applies only to objects in the selected network view. If you have multiple network views, you must configure a separate policy for each network view.
   - **Template**: Define a naming template that Network Insight uses to automatically create DNS records for the unmanaged IP addresses in the network view. You can use the following syntax: ${**substitution**}, where **substitution** can be a supported variable or function. Note that each IPv6 address substitution is unwrapped into dotted presentation. For information about supported variables and functions, see Supported Variables for Templates below.  
     For example, when you enter ** **`${discovered_name}.corpxyz.com`, and the discovered_name for the asset is XYZ, the DNS name for this IP becomes [XYZ.corpxyz.com](http://XYZ.corpxyz.com). When you enter`$dev-{ip_address_octet3}.corpxyz.com `and the IP for the asset is `2dba::db8::1`, the DNS name for this IP becomes [dev-3.corpxyz.com](http://dev-3.corpxyz.com). When you enter `${ip_address[7]}.corpxyz.com `for an IPv6 address and if the IP for the asset is `2001:db8:acad::1`, the DNS name becomes [b.corpxyz.com](http://b.corpxyz.com). You can also use the following functions in the naming template: dashed, reversed, and underscored. For example, when you enter `${dashed(${ip_address})}-corpxyz.com `and the IP is 1.2.3.4, the DNS name becomes [1-2-3-4-corpxyz.com](http://1-2-3-4-corpxyz.com). When you enter `${reversed(${ip_address})}-corpxyz.com `and the IP is `1.2.3.4`, the DNS name becomes [4.3.2.1-corpxyz.com](http://4.3.2.1-corpxyz.com).
   - **Conditions**: Enter the matching conditions for the conversion rule. You can use magic variables, supported variables, operators, and functions in the condition. When Network Insight finds IP addresses that match this condition, it will convert the IP addresses into DNS records (Hosts, A/PTR records, or fixed addresses) based on your selected conversion type. For information about supported parameters, see  Supported Conversion Parameters below.  
     For example, if you want to match IP addresses that do not have an FQDN in the `discovered_nam`, you can enter this condition: `${is_fqdn(${discovered_name})} == false AND ${discovered_name} == 'unknown'`. That is, you can use `unknown`** **as the filter value for IP addresses that do not have FQDN.  
     If you want to match devices from the network `192.168.1.0/24 `with the name starting with "`Serial0`", you can enter this condition: `${ip_belongs_to("192.168.1.0/24")} == true AND ${discovered_name} like "Serial0"`  
     **ConversionType**: From the drop-down list, select the DNS record type that you want Network insight to convert the unmanaged IP addresses into. You can convert an unmanaged IP into **Host**, **A/PTR**, or **FixedAddress**. When you select **A/PTR**, Network Insight converts each IP into A and PTR records simultaneously.  
     **Comment**: Enter description about this policy to distinguish it from others. For example, if the policy is used to identify and convert IP addresses with `discovered_name `that does not contain an FQDN, you can enter "No FQDN in discovered_name." as the comment to remind yourself about this conversion rule.
