---
title: "IDN Supported Fields"
source: "/space/nios90/1346011314"
pageId: "1346011314"
---
The NIOS appliance supports IDNs in all domain name fields. For information about IDN[ ](#)Support[ ](#)For[ ](#)DNS Zones, see [/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-zones/domains-and-zones](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-zones/domains-and-zones)  [.](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-zones/domains-and-zones/Domains+and+Zones#IDNSupportForDNSZones) You can enter non-English characters in the domain name fields through Grid Manager and the Infoblox API. The NIOS appliance does not support IDNs for data that is configurable through the Infoblox CLI commands. You can use the punycode representation to configure data through the CLI commands.  
The appliance supports IDNs in the following:

- You can use UTF-8 characters when defining your own hostname checking policy. For information, see [*Specifying Hostname Policies*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dns-services/specifying-hostname-policies).
- You can use both IDNs and punycode to search for IDN data through Global Search. For more information about using Global Search, see [*Finding and Restoring Data*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/performing-basic-operations-using-grid-manager/finding-and-restoring-data).
- Use smart folders to organize and monitor IDN data. However, if the content in a smart folder contains IDNs, then the punycode representation is not available. For information, see [*Smart Folders*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/smart-folders).
- You can import data that contains IDNs in CSV format for the supported fields and objects using CSV import. For more information, see [*Importing and Exporting Data using CSV Import*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=nios90&title=Importing%20and%20Exporting%20Data%20using%20%20CSV%20Import&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=1346011314). For a list of supported record types and specific guidelines for creating a data file, refer to the *Infoblox CSV Import Reference*.
- The IPAM tab displays IDNs for DNS resource records associated with IP addresses, such as A records, AAAA records, hosts, and PTR records. For information, see [*About IP Address Management*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/ip-address-management/managing-ip-addresses/about-ip-address-management).
- The audit log entries are displayed in their original characters. The audit log contains IDN data as received by the appliance and as specified by the administrators. Note that the punycode representation generated by NIOS is not displayed in the audit log.
- When you upgrade from a previous NIOS release, the appliance converts all punycode to IDNs. If the conversion fails, the appliance retains the punycode representation to avoid upgrade failure. For information about upgrades, see [*Guidelines for Upgrading, Backing Up, and Restoring Data*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=nios90&title=Guidelines%20for%20Upgrading%2C%20Backing%20Up%2C%20and%20Restoring%20Data&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=1346011314).
- When you restore a backup file from a previous NIOS release, the appliance converts all punycode to IDNs. If the conversion fails, the appliance retains the punycode representation to avoid failure to restore the database. For information, see [*Guidelines for Upgrading, Backing Up, and Restoring Data*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=nios90&title=Guidelines%20for%20Upgrading%2C%20Backing%20Up%2C%20and%20Restoring%20Data&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=1346011314).
- If synchronized data between the appliance and Microsoft servers contains IDNs, the IDNs are preserved. For information, see [*Managing Microsoft DNS Services*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/configuring-microsoft-windows-servers/managing-microsoft-dns-services).
