---
title: "Adding Grid Secondaries"
source: "/space/nios90/1457652246"
pageId: "1457652246"
---
When adding Grid secondaries to a zone that has multiple primary servers, the appliance selects a primary server as the active server based on the method that you have selected. If you select **Automatic**, the primary is selected based on latency determination, which occurs separately on each primary. When available, the primary server that has the lowest latency is preferred. When you select **Manual**, latency determination is ignored, and the first available primary server in the list is selected as the active server. Thus if the first primary on the list is not available, the next available primary is used. Depending on which primary server is selected, the Grid secondary returns the FQDN of the primary in the MNAME field of the zone SOA record. It also includes the version of the zone content that it serves.  
In the Add Grid Secondary panel, enter the following, and then click **Add** to add the Grid secondary server to the list of name servers for the zone**:**

- If no member is displayed, click **Select** to specify a Grid member. When there are multiple members, Grid Manager displays the *Member* *Selector* dialog box from which you can select a secondary name server.
- **Stealth:** This setting applies only if the primary server is a Grid member or Microsoft server. Select this to hide the NS record for the secondary name server from DNS queries. The NIOS appliance does not create an NS record for this name server in the zone data. Select the checkbox again to display the NS record for the secondary name server in responses to queries. A secondary server in stealth mode is also known as a "hidden secondary".  
  For example, you can configure a hidden secondary when a secondary server is at a branch office with a slow connection to the rest of corporate network. Configure local hosts at the branch office to send DNS queries to the secondary server, but keep it hidden from other name servers on the rest of the network so that they do not send it queries. Instead, they use a server located in a different part of the network that has faster connection speeds.
- **Lead** **Secondary:** This option becomes available only after you specify the primary name server as external. When a primary server is external to a Grid whose members are secondary servers, you can select this checkbox to designate one member as a lead secondary. The primary server sends zone transfers to the lead secondary, which distributes the zone data to the other secondary servers in the Grid using zone transfers (not the Grid data replication mechanism). After you designate a Grid member as a lead secondary for a zone, you do not have to configure members to use the lead secondary server. All other Grid members acting as secondary servers for the zone automatically use the lead secondary to get zone data. Using a lead secondary simplifies the addition, modification, and removal of other secondary servers in the Grid. As long as the lead secondary remains unchanged, you need not update intervening firewall policies or the external primary server whenever you make changes to non-lead secondary Grid members. This approach also reduces the amount of traffic between primary and secondary servers.
- **Update** **Zones** **Using:** This option becomes available only after you specify a Grid member as the primary server.
  
  - **Grid** **Replication** **(recommended):** Select this checkbox to use Grid replication to move zone data from the primary to secondary servers.
  - **DNS** **Zone** **Transfers:** Select this checkbox to use the DNS zone transfer process to move zone data from the primary to secondary servers.
- **Primary Preference**: This appears only for Grid secondaries that are assigned to zones with multiple primaries. Select one of the following to set preference for selecting the primary server:
  
  - **Automatic:** Choose this to allow the appliance to select the optimum primary server for zone updates based on latency determination, which prefers the primary server that has the lowest latency. This is selected by default.
  - **Manual:** Choose this to manually select primaries for zone updates. In the Available Primaries and Selected Primaries tables, click a name server and use the arrows to select and deselect primaries between the tables. Then use the up and down arrows next to the Selected Primaries table to put the selected primaries in a preferred order. The secondary servers will get zone updates from the selected primary server based on the given order. To optimize service performance, select primary servers that are close in proximity to the secondary servers.
