---
title: "Enabling and Disabling Monitoring Mode"
source: "/space/nios90/280760293"
pageId: "280760293"
---
To ensure that blocking certain DNS queries and packets through DNS Infrastructure Protection rules does not cause unintended effect on your appliance, you can set the DNS Infrastructure Protection service in monitor mode. You can also put your appliance in this mode to rule out the possibility that the DNS server is dropping DNS queries. When monitor mode is enabled, the appliance logs DNS packets (instead of dropping them) that would have been blocked by DNS Infrastructure Protection rules. This information is recorded in the syslog.  
When the DNS Infrastructure Protection service is in monitor mode, the service status changes from **DNS Infrastructure** **Protection** **Service** **is** **working** to **DNS Infrastructure Protection** **is** **working** **in** **monitor** **mode** and the status color changes from green to yellow. The status appears in both the **Data** **Management** tab -&gt; **Security** tab -&gt; **Members** tab and in the **Infoblox** **Grid** tab -&gt; **Grid** **Manager** tab -&gt; **Services** tab. Note that when one of the members is in monitor mode, the overall status for the DNS Infrastructure Protection service changes from green to yellow. For more information about viewing service status, see *[Monitoring Services](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/monitoring/monitoring-the-appliance/monitoring-services)*.  
You can enable or disable the monitor mode for individual Grid members through the CLI command **set adp** **monitor-mode**. You cannot set this configuration at the Grid level. To enable or disable monitor mode for both hardware and Software DNS Infrastructure Protection profiles, you can use the command set adp monitor-mode on/off. The show adp command displays the status of the monitor mode. Grid Manager displays a warning if the DNS Infrastructure Protection profile is running in monitor mode.  
For more information about this command, refer to the *Infoblox* *CLI* *Guide*. Note that the **set adp**** monitor-mode** command is recorded in the audit log while the DNS Infrastructure Protection events are recorded in the syslog. For information about the audit log and syslog, see *[Monitoring Tools](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/monitoring/monitoring-the-appliance/monitoring-tools)*.
