---
title: "Defining Thresholds for Traps"
source: "/space/nios90/1406435401"
pageId: "1406435401"
---
Threshold events for appliance performance are configurable. For each event, you can set a value that triggers the appliance to send a trap and another value at which the appliance sends a CLEAR trap. The appliance sends a CLEAR trap the first time the event value reaches the reset value after it reached the trigger value.

To define the threshold values:

1. Grid: From the **Infoblox** **Grid** tab, select the **Grid** **Manager** tab, and then select **Grid** **Properties** -> **Edit** from the Toolbar. Member: From the **Grid** tab, select the **Grid** **Manager** -> **Members** tab -> *member*, and then click the **Edit** icon.
2. In the *Grid* *Properties* or *Grid* *Member* *Properties* editor, click **Toggle** **Advanced** **Mode,** and then select the **SNMP** **Threshold** tab. To override Grid settings, click **Override** in the *Grid* *Member* *Properties* editor.
3. Complete the following on the **SNMP** **Threshold** tab. Each of the following event types have default **Trigger** and **Reset** values. You can change the values for any of them. You can set SNMP thresholds above or below which the appliance sends SNMP traps and email notifications if configured to do so. When any allocated usage exceeds the trigger value, the appliance sends an SNMP trap and email notification to the designated destination, and the status icon for that usage turns red or yellow in case of the DB Write Usage event type. When usage drops to the reset value, the status color goes back to normal and turns green.
   
   - **CPU** **Usage**: The percentage of the CPU that is currently in use. The default **Trigger** value is **81**%, and the default **Reset** value is **70**%. Note that these default values are set to disable the CPU usage trap. You can enable this trap and configure the trigger and reset values using the CLI command set thresholdtrap.   
     Sometimes you may see high CPU usage on Network Insight discovery members. In most cases, this high CPU usage is the result of CPU-intensive tasks run by the MySQL database during the consolidation of customer data. Network Insight is not a real-time system, so high CPU usage itself does not lead to loss of functionality. Therefore this alert should not be treated as critical if no other negative symptoms are observed on discovery members.
   - **Database** **Objects**: The percentage of database capacity that is currently in use. The default **Trigger** value is **80**%, and the default **Reset** value is **70**%.
   - **DBWrite Usage**: The current percentage of the database write usage. The default **Trigger** value is **95**% and the default **Reset** value is **85**%.  
     When the DB write usage exceeds the trigger threshold for five consecutive times recorded at an interval of one minute each, the appliance sends an SNMP trap. The status icon turns yellow when usage exceeds the threshold.
   - **Disk:** The percentage of the primary hard disk that is currently in use. The default **Trigger** value is **85**%, and the default **Reset** value is **70**%.
   - **File** **Distribution** **Usage**: The percentage of the file distribution storage capacity that is currently in use on the selected member. The default **Trigger** value is **90**%, and the default **Reset** value is **70**%.
   - **Dataplane RX Queue Full Count**: Notifies when the DNS Cache Acceleration memory buffer utilization exceeds or falls below the set threshold. You can specify these threshold values which are then used to send notifications.
   - **Dataplane Packet Buffer Utilization**: Notifies if the number of packets dropped at each port in DNS Cache Acceleration exceeds or falls below the set thresholds. You can specify these threshold values which are then used to send notifications. The default **Trigger** value is **90**%, and the default **Reset** value is **70**%.
   - **IPAM** **Utilization**: For a network, this is the percentage based on the IP addresses in use divided by the total addresses in the network and for a network container that contains subnets, this is the percentage of the total address space defined within the container regardless of whether any of the IP addresses in the subnets are in use. The default **Trigger** value is **95**% and the default **Reset** value is **85**%. The status icon turns red when utilization crosses the configured trigger value. When utilization is below the trigger value, the status color turns blue.
   - **Memory**: The percentage of the system memory that is currently in use. The default **Trigger** value is **90**%, and the default **Reset** value is **80**%.
   - **Network** **Capacity**: When the Grid is part of a Master Grid, this is the percentage of the Master Grid's network capacity that is used by the Grid's networks. The default **Trigger** value is **85**% and default **Reset** value is **75**%.
   - **Recursive** **Clients**: The percentage of the limit of concurrent recursive queries. The default **Trigger** value is **80**%, and the default **Reset** value is **30**%. You must also enable the recursive client limit in order for the appliance to send recursive client traps. For information about how to set this limit, see  [*Restricting*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280665882)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280665882)[*Recursive*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280665882)[ Enabling Recursive Queries ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280665882)[*Client*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280665882)[ Enabling Recursive Queries ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280665882)[*Queries*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280665882). When you configure the Trigger and Reset values, ensure that you do not set them too low or too close together. If the Trigger and Reset values are too close together, the appliance may send excessive traps and email notifications because both trigger and reset traps are sent based on the calculated value of simultaneous recursive client queries. For example, when you set the recursive client limit at 50, Trigger value at 71%, and Reset value at 70%, the value for simultaneous recursive client queries is calculated at 50 x .71 = 35 (integer math truncation) and 50 x .70 = 35. This could result in the appliance sending trigger and reset traps for the same value of simultaneous recursive client queries.
   - **Root** **File** **System:** The percentage of the root file system ("/") that is currently in use. The default **Trigger** value is **85**%, and the default **Reset** value is **70**%.
   - **Swap** **Usage:** The percentage of the swap area that is currently in use. The factory default **Trigger** value is 50% and the factory default **Reset** value is 30%.  Grid Manager displays zero for both the trigger and reset values indicating the optimized usage of platform specific default values. For information about available memory on each appliance model, see the[ ](#)table below.
   - **Reporting**: The number of reports created on the system that can trigger an SNMP trap. The default **Trigger** value is **85**, and the default **Reset** value is **70**. Note that the maximum number of reports supported per Grid is 300. This field is displayed only when you have configured a reporting server.
   - **Reporting** **Volume:** The percentage of data transmissions to the reporting server. The default **Trigger** value is **80**%, and the default **Reset** value is **71**%. This field is displayed only when you have configured a reporting server.
   - **DNS Infrastructure** **Protection** **Dropped** **Traffic:** The percentage of packets dropped based on the DNS Infrastructure Protection rule configuration. The default **Trigger** value is **90**%, and the default **Reset** value is **70**%. This field is displayed only when Threat Protection licenses are installed on the appliance. When the percentage of DNS Infrastructure Protection dropped traffic exceeds the trigger value or drops below the reset value, the appliance sends an SNMP trap and an email notification — if configured to do so. For information about setting SNMP traps and email notifications, see [*Setting*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/1406500950)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/1406500950)[*SNMP*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/1406500950)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/1406500950)[*and*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/1406500950)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/1406500950)[*Email*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/1406500950)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/1406500950)[*Notifications*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/1406500950) in the following section.
   - **DNS Infrastructure** **Protection** **Total** **Traffic:** The percentage of total traffic received (dropped and passed packets) on the external interfaces. The default **Trigger** value is **90**%, and the default **Reset** value is **70**%. This field is displayed only when Threat Protection licenses are installed on the appliance. When the percentage of total DNS Infrastructure Protection traffic exceeds the Trigger value or drops below the Reset value, the appliance sends an SNMP trap and an email notification — if configured to do so.
     
     If you have installed Threat Protection licenses on the appliance and are using the Infoblox feature, Grid Manager displays the following for **Trigger** **events** **per** **second** and **Reset** **events** **per** **second**:
     
     - **Alert** **Rate**: The number of SNMP traps sent per second when the appliance sends alerts while passing packets based on DNS Infrastructure Protection rule configuration. The default trigger value is based on the events per second configured for the rule.
     - **Drop** **Rate**: The number of SNMP traps sent per second when the appliance drops packets based on the DNS Infrastructure Protection rule configuration. The default trigger value resets based on the number of events that are reset.  
       If you have installed an RPZ license on the NIOS appliance, you can configure the thresholds to monitor the RPZ hit rate in the **Response** **Policy** **Zones** **Hit** **Rate** **Configuration** section. For information, see [*Configuring Thresholds for RPZ Hit Rate*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280269676).
4. Save the configuration and click **Restart** if it appears at the top of the screen.

For information on available Infoblox appliance models and their available memory see the NIOS Release Notes on the Infoblox Support Site. Note that TE appliances are IB appliances in Grid Manager.
