---
title: "Defining NTP Access Control"
source: "/space/nios90/1449590908"
pageId: "1449590908"
---
The NTP access control list specifies which clients can use a NIOS appliance as an NTP server. If you do not configure access control, then the NIOS appliance allows access to all clients. You can configure access control at the NTP Grid level and override that at the member level.  
In addition, the NIOS appliance can accept queries from clients using ntpq, the standard utility program used to query NTP servers about their status and operational parameters. You can specify from which clients the NIOS appliance is allowed to accept ntpq queries. The appliance does not accept ntpq queries from any client, by default.  
You can use an existing named ACL (access control list) or multiple ACEs (access control entries) to control which clients can use the NIOS appliance as an NTP server, as well as those clients from which the appliance can accept queries using ntpq. For information about access control, see [*Configuring Access Control*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280667677).

To specify which clients can access the NTP service of a NIOS appliance and from which clients a NIOS appliance can accept ntpq queries, and to enable or disable KoD, complete the following:

1. **Grid:** From the **Infoblox Grid** tab, select the **Grid** **Manager** tab, expand the Toolbar and click **NTP** -> **NTP** **Grid** **Config**.  
   **Member:** From the **Infoblox** **Grid** tab, select the **Grid** **Manager** tab -> **Members** tab -> *Grid_member* checkbox. Expand the Toolbar and click **NTP** -> **NTP** **Member** **Config**.  
   To override an inherited property, click **Override** next to it and complete the appropriate fields.
2. In the **Access** **Control** tab of the *Grid* or *Member* *NTP* *Properties* editor, select one of the following to configure NTP access control:
   
   - **None**: Select this if you do not want to configure access control for NTP service. When you select **None**, the appliance allows all clients to access the NTP service. This is selected by default.
   - **Use** **Named** **ACL** **for** **Time** **only:** Select this and click **Select** **Named** **ACL** to select a named ACL that contains only IPv4 addresses and networks. NTP queries do not support TSIG key based ACEs. When you select this, the appliance allows clients that have the **Allow** permission in the named ACL to use its NTP service. NTP queries from the named ACL entries specified here are denied. You can click **Clear** to remove the selected named ACL and the appliance accepts ntpq queries from those NTP clients.
   - **Use** **Named** **ACL** **for** **Time** **+** **NTP** **Control** **(NTPQ):** Select this and click **Select** **Named** **ACL** to select a named ACL that contains only IPv4 addresses and networks. NTP queries do not support TSIG key based ACEs. When you select this, the appliance allows clients that have the **Allow** permission in the named ACL to use its NTP service, and for the appliance to accept ntpq queries from those clients as well. You can click **Clear** to remove the selected named ACL.
   - **Use** **this** **set** **of** **ACEs**: Select this to configure individual ACEs. Click the *Add* icon and select one of the following from the drop-down list. Depending on the item you select, Grid Manager either adds a row for the selected item or expands the panel so you can specify additional information about the item you are adding, as follows:
     
     - **IPv4** **Address:** Select this to add an IPv4 address. Click the **Value** field and enter the IPv4 address. The default permission is **Allow**, which means that the appliance allows access to and from this IPv4 client. You cannot change the default permission. In the **Service** field, select **Time** **only** to allow this client for using the NTP service on the appliance; or select **Time** **+** **NTP** **Control** **(NTPQ)** to also accept ntpq queries from this client.
     - **IPv4** **Network:** Select this to add an IPv4 network. Click the **Value** field and enter the IPv4 network. The default permission is **Allow**, which means that the appliance allows access to and from this IPv4 network. You cannot change the default permission. In the **Service** field, select **Time** **only** to allow this network for using the NTP service on the appliance; or select **Time** **+** **NTP** **Control** **(NTPQ)** to also accept ntpq queries from this network.
     - **IPv6** **Address:** Select this to add an IPv6 address. Click the **Value** field and enter the IPv6 address. The default permission is **Allow**, which means that the appliance allows access to and from this IPv6 client. You cannot change the default permission. In the **Service** field, select **Time** **only** to allow this client for using the NTP service on the appliance; or select **Time** **+** **NTP** **Control** **(NTPQ)** to also accept ntpq queries from this client.
     - **IPv6** **Network:** Select this to add an IPv6 network. Click the **Value** field and enter the IPv6 network. The default permission is **Allow**, which means that the appliance allows access to and from this IPv6 network. You cannot change the default permission. In the **Service** field, select **Time** **only** to allow this network for using the NTP service on the appliance; or select **Time** **+** **NTP** **Control** **(NTPQ)** to also accept ntpq queries from this network.
     - **Any** **Address/Network:** Select this to allow access to all IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and networks. The default permission is **Allow**, which means that the appliance allows access to and from all IPv4 and IPv6 clients. You cannot change the default permission. In the **Service** field, select **Time** **only** to allow clients for using the NTP service on the appliance; or select **Time** **+** **NTP** **Control** **(NTPQ)** to also accept ntpq queries from all clients.  
       After you have added access control entries, you can do the following:
       
       - Select the ACEs that you want to consolidate and put into a new named ACL. Click the Create new named ACL icon and enter a name in the *Convert* *to* *Named* *ACL* dialog box. The appliance creates a new named ACL and adds it to the **Named** **ACL** panel. Note that the ACEs you configure for this operation stay intact.
       - Reorder the list of ACEs using the up and down arrows next to the table.
       - Select an ACE and click the Edit icon to modify the entry.
       - Select an ACE and click the Delete icon to delete the entry. You can select multiple ACEs for deletion.
     - **Enable** **KoD**: When you select this checkbox, the appliance (when acting as an NTP server) sends a KoD (Kiss-o'-Death) packet to the NTP client if the client has exceeded the rate limit. The KoD packet contains the stratum field set to zero and the ASCII string in the Reference Source Identifier field set to RATE, indicating the packets sent by the client have been dropped by the server. When you clear the checkbox, the NTP server drops the packets but does not send any KoD packet to the client. This checkbox is deselected by default. For more information about KoD, see Enabling Kiss-o'-Death for NTP below.
3. Save the configuration and click **Restart** if it appears at the top of the screen.
