---
title: "Handling Error and Warning Messages for DNSSEC Operations"
source: "/space/nios90/1455030410"
pageId: "1455030410"
---
Grid Manager consolidates warnings from one or more DNSSEC long running operations and displays them in a single dialog box. For more information about long running tasks, see [*About Long Running Tasks*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/scheduling-tasks/about-long-running-tasks). When the long running operations are completed with warnings, the appliance displays the message using a yellow banner at the top of Grid Manager. Click **Show** **Warnings** to view the warnings that are generated by the server for DNSSEC operations. Click **Close** to close the warning dialog box.  
The appliance also displays a warning icon in the **Execution** **Status** column of the **Task** **Manager.** For more information about the task manager, see [*Viewing Tasks*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/using-the-grid-manager-interface/scheduling-tasks/viewing-tasks). When you click the icon, the appliance displays a dialog box indicating that the task is complete with warnings. Click the **show** **task** **details** hyperlink to view detailed information about the error or warning message. The appliance displays *Scheduled* *Task* *Details* wizard in which you can view the task details and error or warning messages, if any. For more information, see [*Viewing Scheduled Tasks*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/dns/configuring-dnssec/signing-a-zone/managing-signed-zones/viewing-scheduled-tasks). The appliance clears the warning messages from the cache when you close the dialog box.  
When a DNSSEC operation fails, NIOS saves the messages in the syslog. For more information about the syslog, see* *[*Using a Syslog Server*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/monitoring/monitoring-the-appliance/using-a-syslog-server).
