---
title: "Mapping Discovery Interfaces to Network Views"
source: "/space/nios90/280406313"
pageId: "280406313"
---
Discovery Probe members must have a designated interface or interfaces over which all discovery traffic exchanges take place. You may designate one or multiple discovery interfaces on each Probe member. You can specify the LAN1, LAN2, MGMT, and VLAN ports as the discovery interfaces. These ports must first be defined in the member network settings before they can be used for discovery. Note that when you configure VLANs on Network Insight appliances, the VLANs are used for discovery only. They do not support other core network services. On ND-1405, ND-2205, ND-4005, ND-V1405, and ND-V2205 Network Insight appliances, you can assign multiple VLAN interfaces on the same Probe to different network views.  
To discover VRF virtual networks, you must discover their corresponding routes. In order to identify discovered data by routes, you associate each discovery interface with a network view. You must have a network view configured for each discovery interface, and you cannot share the same network view with multiple discovery interfaces on the same Probe member. However, discovery interfaces on different Probe members can share the same network view.  
To map discovery interfaces to their respective network views, complete the following:

1. From the **Infoblox Grid** tab, select the **Grid** **Manager** tab, and then click **Discovery**.
2. In the **Services** tab, select the checkbox of the Probe member you want to configure, and then Click **Edit** **–&gt;** **Member** **Discovery** **Properties** in the Toolbar.
3. In the *Member Discovery* *Properties* editor, select the **General** tab and complete the following:
   
   - **Discovery** **Interfaces**: Discovery members must have a designated interface or interfaces over which discovery traffic takes place. By default, appliances use the LAN1 port for discovery traffic. You may designate other ports such as the LAN2, MGMT, and VLAN ports as the discovery interfaces. These ports must first be defined in the member network settings before they can be used for discovery. You cannot modify the discovery interface settings while the discovery service is running on the appliance.
     
     Note that the VLAN interfaces you configured on any Network Insight appliances are used for discovery only. Other services are not supported on these appliances for VLANs. For information about how to define network interfaces on the appliance, see [*Configuring Ethernet Ports*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280274166)*.*  
     The **Discovery** **Interfaces** table displays all interfaces you have configured on the member. To discover using multiple interfaces, you must associate each interface with an available network view. A single default network view exists in NIOS by default. All networks created or discovered for NIOS management must be part of a network view. If more than one network view exists in the Grid, you can map a network view other than the default view to the interface. This essentially serves to allow one or more discovery members to perform discovery on separate routing domains, because a network view is comprised of a single routing domain with its own networks. If you do not want to use a configured interface as the discovery interface, simply leave the network view empty or unassigned for that interface. When you first set up an interface, no network view is assigned to the interface by default.  
     The appliance displays the following for each interface you configure on the Probe member. To modify the network view for an interface, click the **Network** **View** column and select the network view you want to associate with the corresponding interface.
   - **Interface**: Displays the name of the interface. You cannot modify this field. Discovery supports the LAN1, LAN2, MGMT, and VLAN interfaces. You must first define these interfaces for the member before using them for discovery.
   - **VLAN** **Tag**: Displays the VLAN tag or ID for the corresponding VLAN interface. This field is left blank for all physical interfaces. You cannot modify this field.
   - **Network** **View**: Displays the current network view with which the interface is associated. An interface is not associated with any network view and this field is left blank by default, which means the interface is not used as a discovery interface. To modify the network view, click the **Network** **View** column for the corresponding interface and select the network view you want to reassign to the interface from the drop-down list. The appliance associates an interface with the default network view if you have not configured additional network views.
4. Save the configuration.
