---
title: "Special Considerations for Managing VRF Virtual Networks"
source: "/space/nios90/1343325646"
pageId: "1343325646"
---
When you define discovery settings and perform management of VRF virtual networks, consider the following:

- If you limit the context of the SNMP community string in an individual VRF to the context of only that VRF, Network Insight will not be able to determine that the device it has discovered inside that VRF is the same device it has found inside other virtual networks. This may result in extra, un-correlated devices in the network. For information about how to configure SNMP credentials, see [*Configuring SNMP1/v2 Credentials for Polling*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280406248/Configuring+Discovery+Properties#CSC) and [*Configuring SNMPv3 Credentials*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280406248/Configuring+Discovery+Properties#CSNMPC).
- Network Insight will become aware of some devices inside of virtual networks from the route and ARP tables of routers that it manages. Without network connectivity into those virtual networks through a virtual discovery interface, Network Insight cannot discover all the devices or manage them. To create the necessary connectivity, you must configure a Network Insight discovery interface to be part of the VRF.
- Network Insight collects and parses the ARP and routing information from within a VRF context, but this data will not be used for further discovery unless the VRF virtual network is associated with a network view that is mapped on a discovery interface. For more information about how to map network views to discovery interfaces, see [*Mapping Discovery Interfaces to Network Views*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280406313).
- Global VRFs are labeled as: "default(IOS)" for IOS, "default" for Nexus and "master" for JunOS.
- For discovery and periodic polling on Juniper devices through an interface that is not in the Juniper default VRF (master), the query must use a special "default@credential" format. This setting assumes that users do not have management interfaces in a VRF. Your defined SNMP credentials for VRF-aware Juniper devices must use syntax similar to: "@credential". (Note that when querying VRF-aware Juniper devices via an interface that is in the default VRF, a plain community string can be used without the "@" character.)
- When configuring Network Insight to discover networks that employ route-leaking, discovery ranges for each network view should only be defined to include IP addresses that belong to that network view. In other words, any given Device IP should only fall within the discovery ranges of one network view. If discovery ranges are defined such that a device can be discovered by two different network views, the device may also be discovered via an unexpected network view. For information about how to define discovery ranges, see [*Discovering Devices and Networks*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/nios90/pages/280666200)*.*
