---
title: "Guidelines for Using Infoblox Threat Insight"
source: "/space/nios90/1426555312"
pageId: "1426555312"
---
Following are some guidelines to take into consideration when using Infoblox Threat Insight:

- To start the Threat Insight service, you must have at least one **RPZ** license installed in your Grid (it can be installed on any Grid member) and the **Threat Insight** license installed on the Grid member on which you want to start the Threat Insight service. To download updates for Threat Insight module and allowlist sets, you must have at least one Threat Insight license installed in the Grid.
- Infoblox recommends that you run the Threat Insight service for a limited time to monitor and preview what has been detected before actually blocking blocklisted domains. You can carefully review the list of detected domains and decide which domains you want to continue blocking and which domains you want to add to the insight allowlist. You should review the blocklisted domains on a regular basis to make sure that no legitimate use of DNS tunneling is blocked. Note that you can update the insight allowlist by adding new allowlisted domains, moving legitimate domains from the blocklisted domain list, or using CVS import and export. For more information about Configuring a Local RPZ as the Mitigation Blocklist Feed, see below.
- Insight allowlist domains and supported DNS tunneling tools are updated periodically and are bundled with future NIOS releases. To ensure that your appliance is using the most up-to-date allowlist, upgrade to the next NIOS release or configure the appliance to download Threat Insight updates.
- There are no configurable parameters for Infoblox Threat Insight. Infoblox uses the build-in algorithms to analyze DNS statistics and blocks offending domains based on the analyzed data.
- DNS tunneling detection is not instantaneous. It may take a few seconds to a few minutes for the insight to determine positive DNS tunneling activities.
- During an HA failover, insight data that is in progress on the active node might be lost. Only new DNS queries on the new active node after a successful failover are being analyzed. It may take a few minutes for the insight to reach its normal state. If there is no connection between the Grid Master and Grid member, blocklisted domains detected by the insight cannot be transferred to the Grid Master as RPZ records for a pre-configured RPZ zone — this is not applicable to standalone appliances with RPZ license installed. In addition, ensure that the passive node must also have the RPZ license installed and that its hardware model is capable of running the Threat Insight service. For information about supported appliance models, see [Supported Appliances for Infoblox Threat Insight](#) below.
- The Threat Insight service only works on recursive DNS servers and forwarding servers that use BIND as the DNS resolver. It does not support Unbound as the DNS resolver.
- The insight allowlist only applies to Infoblox Threat Insight; it does not apply to signature-based tunneling detection. Anti-DNS tunneling DNS infrastructure protection rules are implemented to address signature-based tunneling analysis. For detailed information about DNS infrastructure protection rules, refer to the *Infoblox DNS Infrastructure Protection Rules* available on the Support web site.
- Infoblox Threat Insight does not support RESTful APIs.
- If you are upgrading from a version earlier than NIOS 8.6.1 to a later release and the TI service is enabled on a Reporting member, Infoblox recommends that you to stop the Threat Insight service on the Reporting member using the Grid Manager before starting the upgrade. This step helps prevent the "Threat Insight Service is failed" message from being displayed post-upgrade.
