---
title: "About Infoblox Threat Insight"
source: "/space/nios90/280759983"
pageId: "280759983"
---
To mitigate DNS data exfiltration, Infoblox Threat Insight employs analytics algorithms to detect DNS tunneling traffic by analyzing incoming DNS queries and responses. These algorithms are developed through an extensive study and analysis of sample DNS statistics within which DNS tunneling data is identified by algorithms that cannot be detected by normal rules and signatures. For more information about DNS data exfiltration, see [*About*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-infrastructure-security/infoblox-threat-insight/about-data-exfiltration)[ ](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-infrastructure-security/infoblox-threat-insight/about-data-exfiltration)[*Data*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-infrastructure-security/infoblox-threat-insight/about-data-exfiltration)[ ](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-infrastructure-security/infoblox-threat-insight/about-data-exfiltration)[*Exfiltration*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-infrastructure-security/infoblox-threat-insight/about-data-exfiltration).

Infoblox Threat Insight identifies data exfiltration tunnels that bypass typical firewall systems. Some popular tunneling tools are OyzmanDNS, SplitBrain, Iodine, DNS2TCP, TCP-Over-DNS, and others. These types of DNS threats are identified as having high activities by using the TXT records in DNS queries. Infoblox Threat Insight also identifies tunnels that are used for C&C. These threats typically do not exhibit high activities or payloads. In general, NXDOMAIN responses fall into this category of threats.  
  
You must have at least one **RPZ** license installed in your Grid (it can be installed on any Grid member) and the **Threat Insight** license installed on the Grid member on which you want to start the Threat Insight service. To download updates for Threat Insight module and allowlist sets, you must have at least one **Threat Insight** license installed in the Grid. When you enable the Threat Insight service, NIOS starts analyzing incoming DNS data and applying these algorithms to detect security threats that have the same or similar behavior as the known data. Once security threats are detected, NIOS blocklists the domains and transfers them to the designated mitigation RPZ (Response Policy Zone), and traffic from the offending domains is blocked and no DNS lookups are allowed for these domains from NIOS members on which RPZ are assigned to them. The appliance also sends an SNMP trap each time it detects a new blocklisted domain.

Infoblox Threat Insight also includes a allowlist that contains trusted domains on which NIOS allows DNS traffic. These are known good domains that carry legitimate DNS tunneling traffic such as Avast, Sophos, McAfee, Boingo, Barracuda, and others. The allowlist is extensible so new allowlisted domains can be added and rolled out accordingly. For Threat Insight running on an On-Prem Infoblox DDI appliances, internal governance and vetting applied by Infoblox ensures all allowlist entries are accurate and curated, and contain only valid entries.

You can also add custom allowlisted domains or move blocklisted domains to the allowlist. For more information about how to configure Infoblox Threat Insight, see [Configuring Infoblox Threat Insight](#CITI) below. Before you utilize Infoblox Threat Insight, there are a few guidelines you might need to consider. For more information, see [Guidelines for Using Infoblox Threat Insight](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/infoblox-infrastructure-security/infoblox-threat-insight/about-infoblox-threat-insight/guidelines-for-using-infoblox-threat-insight).

Infoblox Threat Insight came installed with a module set and a allowlist set. To receive subsequent module set and allowlist set updates, you can configure the appliance to automatically download and apply the updates for you, or you can manually upload the updates when the appliance displays a banner message notifying about available updates.

From NIOS 9.0.7 onwards, Threat Insight and DNS Infrastructure Protection files are securely downloaded from the Infoblox Portal (https://csp.infoblox.com). This works only if the Grid Manager has connectivity to the Infoblox Portal directly on TCP port 443 (or via Web proxy if configured). If the portal access is not available, the system will automatically switch to the earlier download location (https://ts.infoblox.com) directly on TCP port 443 (or via Web proxy if configured).
