---
title: "Licensing Configurations"
source: "/space/nios90/280765231"
pageId: "280765231"
---
Depending on your Grid configuration and how you want to deploy Cloud Network Automation, Infoblox supports the following licensing configurations. For information about cloud licenses and how to install them, see [*Licensing Requirements*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/deploying-cloud-network-automation/licensing-requirements).

- **In** **an** **Infoblox** **Grid,** **the** **Grid** **Master** **has** **the** **Cloud** **Network** **Automation** **license** **installed** **and** **the** **Cloud** **Platform** **Appliance** **has** **the** **Cloud** **Platform** **license** **installed**: The Grid Master can process both regular RESTful API and cloud API requests and the Cloud Platform Appliance can process cloud API requests. With the Cloud Platform license installed, cloud API requests can be proxied among the Grid Master and Cloud Network Appliances based on the delegation authority of the referenced objects. You can also manage the cloud API service and cloud objects through the **Cloud** tab in Grid Manager
- **In** **an** **Infoblox** **Grid,** **the** **Grid** **Master** **does** **not** **have** **the** **Cloud** **Network** **Automation** **license** **installed** **but** **the** **Cloud** **Platform** **Appliance** **has** **the** **Cloud** **Platform** **license** **installed**: The Grid Master can process both regular RESTful API and cloud API requests and the Cloud Platform Appliance can process cloud API requests. With the Cloud Platform license installed, cloud API requests can be proxied among the Grid Master and Cloud Network Appliances based on the authority delegation of the referenced objects. Without the Cloud Network Automation license however, only objects whose authority has been delegated to Cloud Platform Appliances can be managed through Grid Manager. You will not have visibility of cloud objects, such as tenant information, through Grid Manager because the **Cloud** user interface function (the **Cloud** tab) is not available without the Cloud Network Automation license. You may manage cloud objects and their respective data through cloud API requests.
- **In** **an** **Infoblox** **Grid** **with** **other** **Grid** **members** **but** **without** **Cloud** **Platform** **Appliances,** **the** **Grid** **Master** **has** **the** **Cloud** **Network** **Automation** **license** **installed**: The Grid Master can process both regular RESTful API and cloud API requests. You can also manage cloud objects through the **Cloud** tab in Grid Manager.
- **Standalone** **Grid** **Master** **with** **the** **Cloud** **Network** **Automation** **license** **installed**: The appliance can process both regular RESTful API and cloud API requests. You can also manage the cloud API service and cloud objects through the **Cloud** tab in Grid Manager.
- **Standalone** **Grid** **Master** **without** **the** **Cloud** **Network** **Automation** **license** **installed**: The appliance can process only regular RESTful API requests, but not cloud API requests. You cannot manage the cloud API service nor cloud objects through Grid Manager because the **Cloud** user interface function (the **Cloud** tab) is not available.

The following table summarizes the supported licensing scenarios:

|  | **Cloud** **Network** **Automation** **License** **on** **Grid** **Master** | **Cloud** **Platform** **License** **on** **Cloud** **Platform** **Appliance** | **Supports** **Regular** **RESTful** **API** **Calls** **on** **Grid** **Master** | **Supports** **Cloud** **API** **Calls** **on** **Grid** **Master** **and/or** **Cloud** **Platform** **Appliance(s)** | **Cloud** **User** **Interface** **Function** **in** **Grid** **Manager** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Infoblox Grid **with** Cloud Platform Appliance(s) | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* |
| Infoblox Grid **with** Cloud Platform Appliance(s) | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* |
| Infoblox Grid with other Grid members but **without** Cloud Platform Appliance(s) | *[image: media]* | N/A | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* |
| Standalone Grid Master | *[image: media]* | N/A | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* | *[image: media]* |
| Standalone Grid Master | *[image: media]* | N/A | *[image: media]* |   *[image: media]* |   *[image: media]* |
