---
title: "Setting Up Cloud Network Automation"
source: "/space/nios90/280274482"
pageId: "280274482"
---
To set up Cloud Network Automation, ensure that you understand the required components, licenses, and firewall configuration, as described in [*Cloud Network Automation*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/deploying-cloud-network-automation/cloud-network-automation). You also need to understand what a Grid is and how to set up a Grid and deploy vNIOS appliances. For more information, see [*About Grids*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/deploying-a-grid/about-grids).  
Following are high-level steps for setting up Cloud Network Automation:

1. Evaluate your network topology and IPAM requirements, and then decide how you want to set up your Grid in the cloud environment. Based on your requirements, install and configure a cloud adapter that supports Cloud Platform Appliances on your CMP. This adapter functions as the cloud API client. For information about how to install and configure the cloud adapter, refer to the *Quick* *Start* *Guide* for the cloud adapter you are deploying, available on the Infoblox Support site. If you are implementing Cloud Network Automation in your Amazon VPCs (Virtual Private Clouds), refer to the [*Infoblox*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[*Installation*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[*Guide*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[*for*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[*vNIOS*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[*for*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[ ](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG)[*AWS*](https://infoblox-docs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/NAIG).
2. Obtain valid licenses through your Infoblox representatives. Note that Cloud Platform licenses may only be installed on cloud virtual appliances. They may not be installed on physical or virtual Trinzic Enterprise appliances. Deploy the Cloud Platform Appliances and install the Cloud Platform license along with the Enterprise, vNIOS, DHCP, and DNS licenses included in the license bundle for the Cloud Platform Appliance. If you plan to use the Cloud user interface functionality on the Grid Master, obtain a Cloud Network Automation license for your Grid Master and Grid Master Candidate. For information about how to obtain and install licenses, see [*Managing Licenses*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-appliance-operations/managing-licenses-in-nios-9-0-0)* and *[*Managing Licenses in NIOS 9.0.1 and Later*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-appliance-operations/managing-licenses-in-nios-9-0-1-and-later).

If you are implementing Cloud Network Automation in AWS, consider Elastic Scaling to see if it better fits your business needs when you purchase your licenses. You can purchase multiple dynamic licenses and automatically pre-provision vNIOS cloud appliances according to your business needs.

1. If the Cloud Platform Appliance is not part of the Grid, join it to the Grid. For more information about how to join a member to the Grid, see [*Joining Appliances to the Grid*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/deploying-a-grid/adding-grid-members/Adding+Grid+Members#Joining-Appliances-to-the-Grid). If you have implemented Elastic Scaling, ensure that you follow the necessary steps to automatically provision your vNIOS cloud appliances and join them to the Grid. For more information, see [*Using Elastic Scaling to Pre-provision and Launch vNIOS Members*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/deploying-a-grid/pre-provisioning-nios-and-vnios-appliances/joining-pre-provisioned-members-to-a-grid).
2. Log in to Grid Manager and complete the following:
   
   - Start the cloud API service on the Cloud Platform Appliance, as described in* *[*Starting the Cloud API Service*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/deploying-cloud-network-automation/about-cloud-api-service). The cloud API service is disabled by default.

- Define admin groups and admin permissions for Cloud Network Automation, as described in [*About Admin Accounts*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-administrators/about-admin-accounts) and [*About Admin Groups*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-administrators/about-admin-groups).
- Control which users can send API requests, as described in [*Configuring Grid and Member Cloud API*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/deploying-cloud-network-automation/configuring-grid-and-member-cloud-api-properties).
- Add global and object permissions for admin users who can manage cloud objects, as described in [*Managing Permissions*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/managing-administrators/authenticating-admins-using-radius/managing-permissions).

You can now start sending API requests through the cloud adapter or AWS API Proxy. To understand the API request process and the supported API objects, see* *[*About Cloud API Requests*](/nios90/infoblox-nios-9-0-x/administering-nios/appliance-administration/deploying-cloud-network-automation/about-cloud-api-requests).
